 The official said, "recently we opened a ticket counter at Pragati Maidan during the trade fair
 isapar jabardast pratikriya mili
 Therefore, we plan to place the vans near busy malls to reach people
 ’’ Cricketer Gautam Gambhir has extended a helping hand to the families of the soldiers killed in the Naxalite attack in Sukma
 unhone shahid 25 siriarapif javaanon ke bacchon kii padhai kaa kharch uthaane kii ghoshnaa kii he
 They have come forward to help through the Gautam Gambhir Foundation
 vahiin buudhvaar ko eden gardens main khele gaye ipel mukaable main kolkata nide rides ne dilli dairedevills ko 7 wicket se haraa diya
 Captain Gautam Gambhir was the 'man of the Match'
 unhone aword kii ye raashi sukama ke shaheedon ke ashriton ko dene kaa elaan kiya
 He said that this amount will be spent on the education of the children of the affected families
 is match gautam gambhir ne naabad 71 ranon kii captaini pari kheli
 Earlier, he wrote a column in a newspaper and said, 'when i picked up the newspaper on Wednesday morning, i saw pictures of the daughters of two martyred soldiers
 ek apane shahid pita ko celut kar rahi thi, jabaki duusari tasviir main yuvati ko uske gharavaale santvanaa de rahe the
 Gambhir wrote, 'gautam Gambhir Foundation will bear the expenses of the education of the children of these martyrs
 meri team ne kaam shuru kar diya he
 i will update this soon
 ' buudhvaar raat rising pune superjoint ke khilaaf match main gambhir ne kalai main kaali pattee lagaakar siarpief javaanon ko prati sammaan jataayaa tha
 
 @kkridersskipper@gautamgambhirhas dedicated his # iplawards prize money to the martyrs of # sukmanaxal attackpic
 twitter
 com / nyd2hlim6x— indianpremierleague (@ipl)april 29, 2017 Indian Institute of Mass Communication has invited applications for PG Diploma
 icchhuk ummidavaar 8 may tak aavedan kar sakate hai
 Names of the courses: PG Diploma in Journalism in hindipg Diploma in Journalism in englishpg Diploma in Radio and TVPG Diploma in Advertising and Public Relations Management Qualification: Last date for submission of graduation form: May 8 Click here for more information gujarat main pichley kuch vakt se gir ke jangal ko chhod sher ke rahaishi ilaake main aane kii khabaren aa rahi hai
 In such a situation, another shocking case was seen in Savarkundla of Amreli on Wednesday night
 amarelli saavarkundala ke pithawadi gaanv main ek saath teen sheron ke aa jane se afratfari much gai, har koi khud ki jaan bachaane ke liye gharon ki chhaton par chadh gaye
 While the lion made a cow its prey here, two pedal yatra also attacked and injured them
 sher yahaan gir ke jangal ke paas vaale revenu aria main kai baar shikaar kii khoj main aa ja rahe hai
 These lions entered the village of Achanak in Savarkundla at around 9 pm and there was panic in the entire village
 jiske chalate gaanv vaale khud kii jaan bachaane chat par chadh gaye or sher ke dar se unhone puri raat chat par bitaai
 However, immediately after getting information about the forest department, the team of forest department arrived here immediately
 saath hi local police bhi yahaan pahunch gai or donon ne milakar sher ko jangal ki taraf ravaanaa kar diya
 The villagers thereafter breathed a sigh of relief and the injured were admitted to the government hospital in Amreli for treatment there
 desh, duniya, mahanagar, khel, aarthik or bollywood main kya kuch hua
 Read here to know the live update of news over time
 09
 04 PM: Anna Hazare told Aaj Tak, why PM is shying away from the investigation
 07
 16 PM: Pankaj Yadav will be the successor of the kingdom of Jaigurudev with assets worth more than 12 thousand crores
 06
 22 PM: Vishwanath Anand defended his world title by defeating Boris Gelfand of Israel in the World Chess Championship tiebreaker
 anand paanchavin baar vishwa champion bane hai
 04
 55 pm:sibiai adaalat ne reddy or chaar anya kii jamaanat yachikaayen khaarij kii
 03
 30 pm:odisha: sarkaar giraane se bijedy saansad pyaari mohan kaa inkaar
 03
 14 pm:bhaajapa ne upie ke ghatak dalon ko chunauti di ki ve congress nit sarkaar kii nitiyon ke khilaaf dikhaawati dhamkiyaan dene kii bajaay sattarudh gathbandhan se samarthan waapas len
 02
 26 pm:uma bharti ne chutki lete hue kaha ki agar manmohan singh sanyas lete hai, to ve swayan unhen gerua vastra bhent karengi
 02
 23 pm:bijepi netaa uma bharti ne kaha, pradhanmantri ko le lenaa chahie sanyas
 02
 16 pm:arvind kejariwal ne kaha ki pradhanmantri ke khilaaf aarope unhone nahin, balki kaig ne lagaae hai
 02
 14 pm:team anna ke sadsy arvind kejariwal ne kaha, nishpaksh agency se karai jaae bhrashtachar maamalon kii jaanch
 02
 06 pm:yon-shoshan maamle main sweden bheje jaaenge julian asanj, britain ke supreme court kaa faisla
 Julian Assange is the founder of wikileaks
 01
 55 PM: We have not against the Prime Minister, the CAG has made allegations: Baba Ramdev
 01
 50 PM: 2G scam happened under pm's nose: Baba Ramdev
 01
 30 PM: DMK Chief m Karunanidhi overturned to withdraw support from the government
 diemke adhyaksh ne kaha ki media ne unke bayaan ko tod marodakar pesh kiya
 He said that despite the bitterness, we will remain in the UPA
 01
 02 PM: India does not consider anyone an enemy: General VK Singh
 12
 10 PM: Either Prime Minister is a liar or CAG: Baba Ramdev
 11
 24 AM: DMK chief Karunanidhi threatens to withdraw support from UPA over expensive petrol
 11
 03 AM: VK Singh refuses to comment on the letter dispute
 10
 13 AM: Delhi: Fire in Madhu Vihar area, millions of goods burnt to ashes
 10
 02 AM: General VK Singh has said that the three armies of the country are fully ready
 09
 58 AM: Army Chief General VK Singh has said that both injustice and tolerance is wrong
 08
 52 AM: Jammu and Kashmir: Sumo falls in river in Ramban, 13 people killed
 08
 48 AM: Fire in Madhu Vihar area of delhi, rescue operations continue
 damakal kii 15 gadiyaan aag bujhane kaa prayaas kar rahi he
 08
 25 am:petrol ke daam main 2 rupee kii kami sambhav, royatres ke hawaale se khabar
 08
 19 am:england kaa daura bich main hi chhod laut rahe hai naveen patnayak
 08
 17 am:bijedy vidhayakon se mili bijedy vidhayak pyaari mohan
 Click here to watch Aaj Tak LIVE TV 08
 15 am:odisha main satta palat kii ashanka gaharaai
 Even though Hrithik Roshan went through a lot of personal trouble during the film Bang Bang, he believes that this is the easiest film of his career
 rithik is film kii shooting ke dauraan ghayal ho gaye the, jisase unke sar main chot lag gai thi
 After this, he had to undergo brain surgery
 is bare main puche jane par rithik kaa kahana he, 'chunautiyon kaa saamana karne main mujhe majaa aata he
 Think by yourself, nothing will last forever
 hameshaa apana sarvshereshth karo or kisi cheez se daro mat, yahi meri jindagi kaa niyam he
 From the day i stopped thinking what could be bad, everything started to get better from the same day in my life '
 rithik ne ye baaten apni film ke tital treks ke lonching ke maukey par kahi
 Hrithik said that during this film he has known a lot of new things about himself
 press se baat karte hue unhone kaha aksar main film kii taiyaari ke liye khud ko ek kamare main band kar letaa hum, lekin is film ke dauraan aisa karne kii jarurat nahi padi
 i did not prepare for this film
 ye adbhut anubhav tha
 This is one of the easiest films of my career
 baing-baing ke tiger ko utyub par sabase zyada like mili hai
 Hrithik told that his sons Ridan and Rehan are very happy with their look in this film
 talaak ke baad aksar bacchon ke saath samay bitaa rahe rithik ne bataaya ki mere bete 8 or 6 saal ke hai
 When he saw the teaser of the film, he started jumping with joy
 'maine cid (film ke nirdeshak siddharth) ko phone kiya or apane bacchon ke feedback ke bare main bataaya
 i am glad that he has liked the songs and scenes of the film
 pakistan ke uttari wajiristaan kabyli ilaake main sthit ek patrkaar ke ghar par ek rocket ke girane se do bachche ghayal ho gaye
 The incident occurred when security forces and Taliban militants opened fire on each other in the area Saturday night
 tippaniyan During the fire, a rocket fell on the house of journalist Haji Pazir Gul in Miranshah town of North Waziristan tribal agency
 earvaai samachar channel main kaam karne vaale gul ne bataaya ki is ghatana main unke do pote ghayal ho gaye
 He told Miranshah on phone that the condition of his grandsons is stable
 miranshah ke bahari ilaake main sarai darapa khel ilaake main sthit unka makaan rocket girane se kshatigrast bhi ho gaya
 During the fire, a rocket fell on the house of journalist Haji Pazir Gul in Miranshah town of North Waziristan tribal agency
 earvaai samachar channel main kaam karne vaale gul ne bataaya ki is ghatana main unke do pote ghayal ho gaye
 He told Miranshah on phone that the condition of his grandsons is stable
 miranshah ke bahari ilaake main sarai darapa khel ilaake main sthit unka makaan rocket girane se kshatigrast bhi ho gaya
 He told Miranshah on phone that the condition of his grandsons is stable
 miranshah ke bahari ilaake main sarai darapa khel ilaake main sthit unka makaan rocket girane se kshatigrast bhi ho gaya
 a woman from China's Changde province poisoned her 7-month-old nephew
 is mahila ne aisa irshyaa ke chalate kiya
 According to reports, this woman gave birth to a daughter
 chinamen ek bachche kii policy ke chalate kai jagahon par log bete kii zyada chahat rakhte hai orbete ko janmdhene vaali mahila kaa ohada bhi ghar main bada rahata he
 In such a situation, due to jealousy, this woman broke her thermometer and licked the mercury out of it
 bachche kii tabiyat bigadane par use hospital le jaaya gaya
 Seeing the matter growing, the woman handed herself over to the police
 abhi yah spasht nahin hua he ki use sajaa mili he yaa nahin
 7-month-old Kang Kang suddenly became ill on 26 December
 tab uske parivaar ke saare sadsy family reunion ke liye jute the
 His parents were surprised to see his condition as they were taking care of Kang Kang very well
 tabhi uske pita kii najar bistar ke paas toote hue tharmametre par gai
 Explain that there is a very small amount of mercury in the thermometer
 agar ise nigal liya jaae to itnaa nuksaan nahin hota lekin saans ke saath andar jane par yah kai badi swasthya sambandhi samasyaayein paidaa kar saktaa he
 These include difficulty in breathing, coughing up blood, swelling in the eyes, etc
 bacchon ke jis aspataal main kong kong kaa ilaaj chal rahaa he, vahaan uski maa ne media ko bataaya ki unke parivaar kii ek mahila nebache ke saathaisa irshyaavash kiya he
 In fact, she gave birth to a daughter and due to this she had inferiority complex
 dilli main chunaavon ke maddenjar bijepi lagaataar arvind kejariwal ko gher rahi he
 BJP leader Nirmala Sitharaman today said on the challenge of Arvind Kejriwal's debate that we are not afraid of debate
 bhaagna 'aap' kii fitrat he, bijepi kii nahin
 Sitharaman has said that we will ask Arvind Kejriwal five questions daily, till he gets answers, the question will continue to be asked
 nirmala ne 'aap' par aarope lagaaya he ki party kaa kaam outsource kar diya gaya he
 These people are associated with the Anti National Force of India
 aam aadmi party ke log votaron ko bangladesh, dubai or pakistan ke paas se phone kar rahe hai
 'killed Gulfam' aka 'third Kasam'
 
 
 maanviya samvednaa va pyaar kii utkrisht kahani he
 It is said that this is the only story that Phaneshwar Nath Renu's novels, such as 'maila Aanchal' and 'parati Parikatha', overshadow
 is kahani ke kathanak kaa hi craij tha ki suprasiddh geetkaar shailendra ne 'teesri kasam' naam se ek film hi bana di
 The film starred Raj Kapoor and Waheeda Rehman in the lead roles
 basu bhattacharya ne ise nirdeshit kiya tha
 The film is considered a landmark in Hindi cinema
 nayak 'hiraaman' or nayika hirabai kii is prem katha ne prem kaa ek adbhut mahakavyatmak rachaa, par afsos ki iskaa dukhaant kasak se bharaa aisa aakhyaan ban gaya jo aaj bhi pathakon or darshakon ko lubhaata to he
 But somewhere there is a problem
 is film kaa geet, sangeet, filmakan yahaan tak ki poster tak bejod tha
 However, why did Renu ji end this story sadly? On his death anniversary, you should decide to read his immortal love story 'mare Gaye Gulfam'
 kahaneh maare gayi gulfam-fanishwarnath renuhiraaman gaadiwan kii peeth main gudagudi lagati he
 
 
 Hiraman has been driving the car for the last twenty years
 baiylgaadee
 Across the border, the Morang Raj has carried paddy and wood from Nepal
 control ke jamaane main chorbazari kaa maal is paar se us paar pahunchaaya he
 But never got such a tickle in the back! The era of control! Hiraman can never forget that era! Hiraman's heart was doused once he reached Viratnagar in Zogbani, a carriage loaded with four lots of cement and cloth knots
 farbishganj kaa har chor-vyapaaree usko pakkaa gaadiwan maanata
 His bulls were praised by the elder Sethji himself, in his own language
 gaadi pakadi gai paanchavi baar, seemaa ke is paar tarai main
 Mahajan's accountant was hiding on his car by placing a snuff between knots
 daaroga sahab kii dedh haath lambii chorbatti kii roshni kitni tej hoti he, hiraaman jaanata hai
 The man goes blind for an hour, even a splash dawns on his eyes! a loud sound with lights - "aye-ye! Stop the car! Brother-in-law, will you shoot? ”twenty-two trains stopped together
 hiraaman ne pehle hi kaha tha,”yah bees vishaavega!” daaroga sahab uski gaadi main dubake hue munim ji par roshni daalkar pishachi hansee hanse - “ha-ha-ha! munim ji-i-i-i! hi-hi-hi! i-ya, saalaa gaadiwan, munh kya dekhtaa he re-e-e! kambal hataao is bore ke munh par se!” haath kii choti lathi se munim ji ke pet main khoncha maare hue kaha tha,”is bore ko! sa-ssala!”bahut puraani akhaj-adaabat hogi daaroga sahab or munim ji main
 Otherwise, even after accepting that much money, the police and the policeman do not mind! Four thousand is sitting on the car
 lathi se duusari baar khoncha maaraa daaroga ne
 "five thousand!" Then groan - “get down first
 
 
 “munim ko gaadi se neeche utarkar daaroga ne uski aankhon par roshni daal di
 Then, along with two soldiers, took twenty-twenty-five ropes away from the road to the bush
 gaadiwan or gadiyon par paanch-paanch bandookwaale sipaahiyon kaa paharaa! hiraaman samaj gaya, is baar nistaar nahin
 Jail? Hiraman is not afraid of jail
 lekin uske bail? na jane kitne dinon tak bina chaara-pani ke sarkari phatak main padey rahenge - bhukhe-pyaase
 Then you will be auctioned
 bhaiya or bhauji ko vah munh nahin dikhaa sakegaa kabhi
 The auction bid echoes near his ears - one-two-three! Perhaps there was no communication between the inspector and the accountant
 hiraaman kii gaadi ke paas tainaat sipaahi ne apni bhashaa main duusare sipaahi se dhimi aawaaj main poocha,”kaa ho? maamla gol hokhi kaa?” phir kheni-tambaakoo dene ke bahaane us sipaahi ke paas chalaa gaya
 one two Three! Three to four vehicles
 hiraaman ne faisla kar liya
 He slowly untied the ropes around his oxen
 gaadi par baithe-baithe donon ko judwan band diya
 The bulls understood what they had to do
 hiraaman utraa, juti hui gaadi main baans kii tikt lagaakar belon ke kandhon ko belaag kiya
 Tickled the ears of both of them and said in their hearts, "come on, brother, if you save your life, you will get such a saggy cow
" 
 
 
 one two Three! Nine-two-eleven! 
 
 In the guise of the gadi, the thick bush was spread far to the side of the road
 dam sadhakar teenon praaniyon ne jhaadi ko paar kiya - bekhatak, behat! phir ek le, do le - dulki chaal! donon bail seenaa tanakar phir tarai ke ghaney jangalon main ghus gaye
 Sniffing the way, crossing the brook and running tail, picking up the tail
 peeche-peeche hiraaman
 All three people were running through the night
 ghar pahunchakar do din tak besudh pada rahaa hiraaman
 As soon as he came to his senses, he vowed to hold his ear - now he will never be laden with such things
 chorbazari kaa maal? tobaa, tobaa! pataa nahin munim ji kaa kya hua! bhagwaan jane uski saggarh gadi ka kya hua! asli ispaat lohe kii dhuree thi
 If not both wheels, one wheel was brand new
 gaadi main rangeen doriyon ke phundane bade zatan se goonthe gaye the
 He has made two vows
 ek chorbazari kaa maal nahin laadenge
 Second - bamboo
 apane har bhaadedaar se vah pehle hi puch letaa he - “chori- chamariwali cheez to nahin? or, baans? baans ladane ke liye pachaas rupe bhi de koi, hiraaman kii gaadi nahin milegi
 See other's car
 baans ladi hui gaadi! gadi se chaar haath aage baans kaa agua niklaa rahata he or peeche kii ore chaar haath pichua! kaabo ke baahar rahati he gaadi hameshaa
 So uncontrollable laden and puffy
 shaharwaali baat! tis par baans kaa agua pakadqar chalanevaala bhadedaar kaa mahabhakua naukar, ladkee-skool kii ore dekhne laga
 Just then, the mode collided with the horse racing
 jab tak hiraaman belon kii rassi khinche, tab tak ghodagadee kii chhatari baans ke agua main fas gai
 The horse-cartman had abused him while whipping! Not only the bamboo laden, Hiraman also left the ladle of Kharahiya city
 or jab farbishganj se morang kaa haada dhonaa shuru kiya to gaadi hi paar! kai varshon tak hiraaman ne belon ko aadhidari par jota
 Half the fare for the cart and half the bullock
 hiss! gaadivaani karo muft! aadhidari kii kamai se belon ke hi pet nahin bharte
 He has got his car built only last year
 devi maiyaa bhala karen us sarakas-company ke baagh kaa
 In the same fair last year, both horses carrying tiger carts died
 champanagar se farbishganj mela aane ke samay sarakas-company ke manager ne gaadiwan-pattee main elaan karke kaha - “sau rupaya haada milegaa!” ek-do gaadiwan raji hue
 But, their bulls began to tremble with fear ten feet away from the tiger cart
 Tread the rope and run away
 hiraaman ne apane belon kii peeth sahalaate hue kaha,”dekho bhaiyan, aisa mauka phir haath na aayega
 This is the chance to get your car built
 nahin to phir aadhedaari
 Hey, what is the fear of a tiger locked in a cage? You have seen tigers roaring in the valley of Morang
 phir peeth par main to hoon
 "applause in the party of the crowd had grown together
 sabhi kii laaj rakh lee hiraaman ke belon ne
 Humakkar went ahead and got into the tiger cart - one by one
 sirf daahine bail ne jutane ke baad dher-sa peshaab kiya
 Hiraman did not open a cloth strip through his nose for two days
 bady gaddi ke bade seth ji kii tarah nakbandhan lagaae bina baghin gandh bardaast nahin kar saktaa koi
 Hiraman has driven a tiger cart
 kabhi aisi gudagudi nahin lagi peeth main
 Today, Champa flower smells in his car intermittently
 peeth main gudagudi lagane par vah angoche se peeth jhaad letaa he
 Hiraman feels, for two years, Bhagwati Maia of the Champanagar fair is pleased with him
 pichley saal baghagaadi zut gai
 Apart from the cash fare of one hundred rupees, butad, chah-biscuits and the monkey-bear and clown spectacle across the road saw Soo Fokat! And, this time it is a ride
 aurat he yaa champa kaa phool! jab se gaadi meh-meh mahak rahi he
 In a small ravine in a rough road, the right wheel of a carriage was eaten without hesitation
 hiraaman kii gaadi se ek halki sis kii aawaaj ai
 Hiraman beat the right ox with a double, and said, "fuckin! What do you think, is the bag loaded? "" Aha! Don't kill! "the voice of the unseen woman surprised Hiraman
 bacchon kii boli jaisi maheen, phenugilasi boli!mathuramohan nautanki company main laila bananevaali hirabai kaa naam kisne nahin suna hoga bhala! lekin hiraaman kii baat niraali he! usne saat saal tak lagaataar melon kii ladani laadi he, kabhi nautanki-theatre yaa byscope cinema nahin dekha
 He never heard the name of Laila or Hirabai
 dekhne kii kya baat! so mela tuutane ke pandrah din pehle aadhi raat kii bela main kaali odhani main lipati aurat ko dekhakar uske man main khatka avashya laga tha
 When the boxing servant tried to bargain in the carriage, the hawker refused to shake his head
 hiraaman ne gaadi zotate hue naukar se poocha, “kyon bhaiya, koi chori chamaari kaa maal-waal to nahin?” hiraaman ko phir achraj hua
 The man who carried the box asked the hand to gesture and disappeared into the darkness
 hiraaman ko meley main tambaakoo bechnewali boodhi kii kaali sari kii yaad ai thi
 In such a situation, what makes any vehicle laugh! One is tickling in the back
 duusare rah-rahakar champa kaa phool khil jaataa he uski gaadi main
 If you scold the bulls, you start riding it
 uski sawari! aurat akeli, tambaakoo bechnewali boodhi nahin! aawaaj sunne ke baad vah baar-baar mudqar tappar main ek najar daal detaa he; angoche se peeth jhaadta he
 
 
 God knows what is written this time in his destiny! When the train turned towards the east, a piece of moonlight entered her car
 sawari kii naak par ek jugnu jagamaga uthaa
 Hiraman finds everything mysterious - ajgut-ajgut-
 saamne champanagar se sindhiya gaanv tak failaa hua maidan
 
 qaheen dokin-pishachin to nahin?hiraaman kii sawari ne karavat lee
 If the moonlight fell on the whole face, Hiraman stopped screaming - oh father! e is a fairy! Angel's eyes opened
 hiraaman ne saamne sadq kii ore munh kar liya or belon ko titakaari di
 He makes the sound of til-ti-ti-ti by sticking his tongue in the palate
 hiraaman kii jeebh na jane kab se sookhkar lakdi-zaisi ho gai thi!“bhaiya, tumhaara naam kya he?”hu-ba-hu phenugilas! 
 
 hiraaman ke rome-rome baj uthe
 Did not speak out of mouth uske donon bail bhi kaan khadey qarake is boli ko parakhte hai
 "my name! 
 
 
 naam meraa he hiraaman!”uski sawari muskaraati he
 
 
 
 muskaraahat main khushboo he
 "then Mita will say, no brother
" - meraa naam bhi hira he
 "iss!" Hiraman is not perfect, "there is a difference between a man and a woman's name
" ”“haan ji, meraa naam bhi hirabai he
 "there is a lot of difference between where Hiraman and where Hirabai! Hiraman gave his oxen a peep -" Will you cut thirty curses by hearing a gossip? This left natal stomach is satanic
 ” hiraaman ne baayein bail ko duaali kii halki jhadap di
 "do not hit; Let it go slowly
 jaldi kya he!”hiraaman ke saamne sawaal upasthit hua, vah kya kahkar gap kare hirabai se? tohe kahe yaa ahaan? uski bhashaa main bado ko ahaan arthath aap kahkar sambodhit kiya jaataa he, kacharaahi boli main do-chaar sawaal-jawaab chal saktaa he, dil-khol gap to gaanv kii boli main hi kii ja sakati he kisi se
 Hiraman is irritated by the fog that sweeps in the dawn of the asin-katik
 bahut baar vah sadq bhuulakar bhatak chukaa he
 But even in this thick fog of dawn today, he is merry
 nadi ke kinare dhan-kheton se foole hue dhan ke paudhon kii pavaniya gandh aati he
 a similar fragrance spreads in the village on the day of the festival
 uski gaadi main phir champa kaa phool khilaa
 An angel is sitting in that flower
 
 
 zai bhagwati
 Hiraman looked through his eyes, riding him
 
 
 mita 
 
 
 Heerabai's eyes tickle her
 hiraaman ke man main koi ajaani raagini baj uthi
 The whole body is sick bolaa, “bail ko maarthe hai to aapako bahut bura lagata he?”hirabai ne parakh liya, hiraaman sachmuch hira he
 Forty-year-old hatta-katta, kala-kaluta, the rustic young man is not particularly interested in anything else in the world except his car and his oxen
 ghar main bada bhai he, kheti karata he
 Is a man with a child
 hiraaman bhai se batchqar bhabhi kii izzat karata he
 Also afraid of sister-in-law
 hiraaman kii bhi shaadi hui thi, bachapan main hi gaune ke pehle hi dulhin mar gai
 Hiraman does not remember the face of his bride
 
 
 duusari shaadi? duusari shaadi na karne ke anek kaaran hai
 Law's insistence, Kumari will get Hiraman married to the girl
 kumari kaa matlab hua paanch-saat saal kii ladkee
 Who believes Sardha-law? a girl can give Dobyahu only if she falls in her girl's thunder
 bhabhi uski teen-satt karke baithi he, so baithi he
 Brother-in-law also does not work in front of sister-in-law! 
 
 
 ab hiraaman ne tay kar liya he, shaadi nahin karegaa
 Who wants to buy a bill! 
 
 
 byaah karke phir gaadivaani kya karegaa koi! or sabakuch chhot jaae, gaadivaani nahin chod saktaa hiraaman
 Hirabai has seen very little man like Hiraman
 poocha, “aapkaa ghar koun jilla main pasta he?” kanpur naam sunate hi jo uski hansee chhuti, to bail bhadq uthe
 Hiraman lowers his head while laughing
 hansee band honaper usne kaha, “vaah re kanpur! tab to nakpur bhi hoga?” or jab hirabai ne kaha ki nakpur bhi he, to vah hanste-hanste duhara ho gaya
 "wow ray world! What a name it is! Kanpur, Nakpur! " Hiraman looked closely at Hirabai's ear flower
 nak kii nakchhavi ke nag dekhakar sihar uthaa - lahu kii buund!hiraaman ne hirabai kaa naam nahin suna kabhi
 He does not consider the woman of the gimmick company to be Baiji
 
 
 
 He has seen the women working in the company
 sarakas company kii malkin, apni donon jawan betiyon ke saath baghagaadi ke paas aati thi, baagh ko chaara-pani detii thi, pyaar bhi karti thi khub
 The elder daughter also fed bread-biscuits to Hiraman's oxen
 hiraaman hoshiyaar he
 As soon as the fog pierced, he covered the screen with his sheet - "just two hours!" After that it is difficult to walk the path
 kartik kii subah kii dhul aap bardaast na kar sakiega
 They will drive near Teghchia on the banks of river Kajri
 dupehriya katkar 
 
 
 
 ”saamne se aati hui gaadi ko dur se hi dekhakar vah satark ho gaya
 He sat paying attention to leaks and bulls
 raah katate hue gaadiwan ne poocha, “mela tut rahaa he kya bhai?”hiraaman ne jawaab diya, vah meley kii baat nahin jaanata
 On her car is Bidagi (a girl going to Naihar or in-laws)
 na jane kis gaanv kaa naam bataa diya hiraaman ne
 "where is chhatapur-pachira?" "where are you, what will you do with this?" Hiraman laughed at his shrewdness
 paradaa daal dene par bhi peeth main gudagudi lagati he
 Hiraman looks through the curtain hole
 hirabai ek diyasalai kii dibbi ke baraabar aaine main apane daant dekh rahi he
 
 
 At the Madanpur fair, bulls were once bought by garlands of little coddies
 hiraaman ne, choti-choti, nanheen-nanheen kaudiyon kii paant
 The three trees of Teghchia are visible from a distance
 hiraaman ne parade ko jaraa sarkaate hue kaha, “dekhie, yahi he tegchhiya
 Two trees are instantly large and what is the name of that flower, the same as the flower printed on your coat; It is very important; Two curses smell far away; People also drink the flower by putting it in Khamira tobacco
 ”“or us amarai kii aad se kai makaan dikhaai passage hai, vahaan koi gaanv he yaa mandir?”hiraaman me bidi sulgaane ke pehle poocha, “bidi pien? aapako gandh to nahin lagegi? 
 
 vahi he namalgar dayodhi
 We are coming from the fair of the king, that is his lamp
 
 
 
 Ja re jamana! ”hiraman put the matter in sugar syrup by saying ja re jamana
 hirabai tappar ke parade ko tirachhein khons diya
 Heirabai's dentistry
 “koun jamaana?” thudi par haath rakhkar saagrah boli
 “time of Namalagar Deodhi! What was there and what has happened! ”hiraman knows the secret of gossip
 hirabai boli, “tumne dekha tha vah jamaana?”“dekha nahin, suna he
 How Raj went, is a big hafwali story
 sunate hai, ghar main devtaa ne janm le liya
 Say well, the deity is the deity
 he yaa nahin? indrasana chhodir miratubhuvan main janm le le to uskaa tej kaise samhaal saktaa he koi! surajamukhi phool kii tarah maathe ke paas tej khilaa rahata
 But no one recognized the sight
 ek baar uplin main laat sahab may laatni ke, hawagadee se aae the
 Even Lat did not recognize Latni
 surajmukhi tej dekhte hi bol uthi - e main raja sahab, suno, yah aadmi kaa baccha nahin hai, devtaa hai
 "hiraman did a lot of dam-fat-lat while copying Latani's bid
 hirabai dil kholkar hansee
 All his body laughs while laughing
 hirabai ne apni odhani thik kar lee
 Then Hiraman felt that
 
 
 laga ki 
 
 “tab? uske baad kya hua mita?”“iss! kaththa sunne kaa bada sock he aapako? 
 
 
 But, black man, even if the king becomes the king, the black man will remain
 sahib ke jaise akkil kahan se paaegaa! hanskar baat uda di sabhi ne
 Then the god started giving dreams to the queen again and again! If you cannot do service, let it go, no, you will stay here
 iske baad devtaa kaa khel shuru hua
 First the two elephants died, then the horse, then the pattang
 
 
 ”“patapataang kya he?”hiraaman kaa man pal-pal main badal rahaa he
 The orange umbrella is slowly blooming in the mind, it seems
 
 
 
 Devakul's lady is riding on his car
 devtaa aakhir devtaa he!“patapataang! dhan-daulat, maal-mawesi sab saaf! devtaa indrasana chalaa gaya
 "hirabai took a long breath, looking out at the temple's cusp, while disappearing
 “lekin devtaa ne jate-jate kaha, is raaj main kabhi ek chhodir do betaa nahin hoga
 We are taking the money with us, we leave it alive
 devtaa ke saath sabhi dev-devi chale gaye, sirf sarosati maiyaa rah gai
 He has a temple
 ”desi ghode par paat ke boj laade hue baniyon ko aate dekhakar hiraaman ne tappar ke parade ko gira diya
 The bulls chanted the Bidesiya Nacht song with the bulls chanting - "jee maiya sarosati, arji karat bani; Hamra par hokhu sahai hai maiya, Hamra par hokhu sahai!" Hiraman asked Ghodaldde Bhanis, "do bhava patua buy mahajan?" Langde Horseman Banegmani replied - “below twenty-eight, thirty above
 jaisaa maal, vaisaa bhav
 The young man asked, "how is the fair, brother?" Who is playing the gimmick company, Rauta company or Mathuramohan? "" Know the fair of the fair? " Hiraman then took the name of chhatapur-pachira
 suraj do baans upar aa gaya tha
 Hiraman started talking to his bulls - "A cursing ground!" Walk with courage
 pyaas kii bela ho gai na! yaad he, us baar tegchhiya ke paas sarakas company ke joker or bandar nachaanevaala sahab main jhagadaa ho gaya tha
 Jokerwa was squirming like a monkey with a tooth-kicked tooth, not knowing which des-man's man is coming! hiraaman kaa man aaj halke sur main bandhaa he
 He remembers different types of songs
 bees-pachchis saal pehle, bidesiya, balwahi, chhokara-naachnewale ek-se-ek ghazal khemta gaate the
 Now, who sings in Bhompa and sings songs! Go! Hiraman remembered the song of chokra-nach - "sajanwa bari ho gaye humaro! Dear one, all of you, let me share your lips; You are helpless! Hiraman cut the song with a finger on the bat of Karamwa, Hoy Karamvagadi
 chhokara-naach ke manuvaan natuva kaa munh hirabai-jaisaa hi tha
 
 
 
 qahaan chalaa gaya vah jamaana? har maheene gaanv main naachnewale aate the
 Hiraman had listened to how much speech his sister-in-law had made due to the dance
 bhai ne ghar se nikal jane ko kaha tha
 Today, Mother Sarosati Sahay is on Hiraman, it seems
 hirabai boli, “vaah, kitna badhiya gaate ho tum!”hiraaman kaa munh laal ho gaya
 He lowered his head and started laughing
 aaj tegchhiya par rahanevaale mahavir swami bhi asahaay hai hiraaman par
 There is not a single car under Teghchia
 hameshaa gaadi or gaadivaanon kii bheed lagi rahati hai yahan
 Only a cyclist is sitting and sleeping
 mahavir swami ko sumarkar hiraaman ne gaadi roki
 Heera Bai started removing the curtain
 hiraaman ne pehali baar aankhon se baat kii hirabai se - cyclawala idhar hi takataki lagaakar dekh rahaa he
 Before opening the bulls, he put the car to the ground by putting a bamboo stamp
 phir cyclawaale kii ore baar-baar ghoorte hue poocha, “kahan janaa he? mela? kahan se aana ho rahaa he? bisanpur se? bas, itani hi dur main thasathasakar thak gaye? - ja re javaani!”cyclawala dublaa-patala noujvaan minaminakar kuch bolaa or bidi sulgaakar uth khada hua
 Hiraman wants to keep Hirabai out of the world
 usne chaaron ore najar daudakar dekh liya - kahin koi gaadi yaa ghoda nahin
 The thin section of the river Kajri has come near Teghchia and turned towards the east
 hirabai pani main baithi hui bhaison or unki peeth par baithe hue bagulon ko dekhati rahi
 Hiraman said, "go, wash your hands on the ghat!" Hirabai came down from the car
 hiraaman kaa kalejaa dhadq uthaa
 
 
 
 nahin, nahin! paanv sidhe hai, tede nahin
 But, why are taluvas so red? Hirabai went towards the ghat, slowly lowering her head like the daughter-in-law of the village
 koun kahegaa ki company kii aurat he! 
 
 
 Not a woman, girl
 shaayad kumari hi he
 Hiraman sat on the car resting on the ticket
 usne tappar main jhaankakar dekha
 Once upon a time, looking here and there, he laid his hands on Hirabai's pillow
 phir takiye par kehuni daalkar jhuk gaya, jhukta gaya
 The fragrance dissolved in his body
 takiye ke gilaaf par kade phulon ko ungliyon se chhukar usne soongha, hai re hai! itani sugandh! hiraaman ko laga, ek saath paanch chilam ganja phunkkar vah uthaa he
 He saw his face in Hirabai's small mirror
 ankhen uski itani laal kyon hai?hirabai lautakar ai to usne hanskar kaha, “ab aap gaadi ka paharaa dijie, main aata hoon turat
 "hiraman took out the Ganji saved from his traveling bag
 gamchaa jhadqar kandhe par liya or haath main balti latakaakar chalaa
 His bulls said something in turn
 hiraaman ne jate-jate ulatakar kaha, “haanhaan, pyaas sabhi ko lagi he
 When i come back, i will give grass, do not be fooled! ”the bulls shook their ears
 naha-dhokar kab lautaa hiraaman, hirabai ko nahin maaloom
 Looking at the stream of Kajari, the sleep of the night had returned to her eyes
 hiraaman paas ke gaanv se jalpan ke liye dahi-chuda-chini le aayaa he
 "get up, break your sleep!" Have two handfuls of refreshments! ”hirabai was surprised with open eyes
 ek haath main mitti ke nae baratan main dahi, kele ke pattey
 a bucketful of water in the other hand
 aankhon main atmiyatapurna anurodh!“itani chijen kahan se le aae!”“is gaanv kaa dahi nami he
 
 
 
 chaah to farbishganj jaakar hi piega
 Hiraman said, "you also lay a plate
 
 
 kyon? tum nahin khaaoge to sametakar rakh lo apni jholii main
 i will not eat either
 ”“iss!” hiraaman lajaakar bolaa, “acchhee baat! aap kha lijie pehle!”“pehle-peeche kya? tum bhi baitho
 "hiraman's life was connected
" hirabai ne apane haath se uskaa pattal bicha diya, pani chheent diya, chuda nikaalkar diya
 This It is Dhanna, it is Dhanna! Hiraman saw, Bhagwati is making supper
 laal hothon par goras kaa paras! 
 
 
 Have you seen a mountain parrot eating milk and rice? tappar main soi hirabai or jameen par dari bichhaakar soe hiraaman kii neend ek hi saath khuli
 
 
 The trains leading to the fair are stopped near Teghchia
 bachche kachar-pachar kar rahe hai
 Hiraman wagged
 tappar ke andar jhaankakar ishaare se kaha - din dhal gaya! gaadi main belon ko jotate samay usne gaadivaanon ke sawaalon kaa koi jawaab nahin diya
 The car said, "it is the dagdarni of Ispital of Sirpur market
 rogi dekhne ja rahi hai
 Kudamagam nearby
 ”hirabai chhattapur-pachira kaa naam bhul gai
 When the car moved forward, he smiled and asked, "pattapur-chhapira?" Hiraman was lying in his stomach laughing - "pattapur-chapira! Ha-ha, they were the cartmen of chhattapur-pachira, how would you tell them! Hee-hee-hee! ”hirabai smiled and looked towards the village
 sadq tegchhiya gaanv ke bich se nikalati he
 The children of the village saw the curtained car and repeated the applause, "lali-lali doliya meinali re dulhaniyapan
" 
 
 !”hiraaman hansaa
 
 
 
 dulhinia 
 
 laali-laali doliya! dulhinia paan khaati he, dulha kii pagadi main munh ponchhati he
 o Dulhinia, remembering the children of Teghchia village
 lautati ber good ka laddu leti aayiyo
 Live millions of your hulha! 
 
 How many days have the courage of Hiraman been fulfilled! How many dreams have he seen! He is returning with his bride
 har gaanv ke bachche taaliyaan bajaakar ga rahe hai
 Women are looking through every courtyard
 mard log poochhate hai, “kahan kii gaadi he, kahan jaaegi? uski dulhin doli kaa paradaa thoda sarkaakar dekhati he
 How many more dreams
 
 When he came out of the village, he looked inside the Tupper with the earrings, Hirabai is thinking something
 hiraaman bhi kisi soch main pads gaya
 After a while, he started humming, "sajan re ji liar mati, have to go to God
 nahin hathi, nahin ghoda, nahin gaadi -vahaan paidal hi janaa he
 Dear 
 
 
 "hirabai asked," Why Mita? Is there no song in your own dialect? ”hiraman now talks with blind eye to Hirabai's eyes
 company kii aurat bhi aisi hoti he? sarakas company kii malkin mem thi
 But Hirabai! She wants to listen to the song in the village dialect
 vah khulkar muskaraayaa - “gaanv kii boli aap samajhiega?”“hoon-uun-uun !” hirabai ne gardan hilaai
 Earrings moved
 hiraaman kuch der tak belon ko haankata rahaa chupchaap
 Then said, "will you definitely listen to the song?" Wouldn't you agree? This You have to listen to this song of a hundred villages! Then the leak will have to be released
 chaalu raste main kaise geet ga saktaa he koi!”hiraaman ne baayein bail kii rassi khinchakar daahine ko li se baahar kiya or bolaa, “haripur hokar nahin jaayenge tab
 Seeing the current leaking bite, the carman behind Hiraman's car shouted and asked, "where are you, except for the leak, where do you go?" Hiraman responded by twisting in the air - "where is Beliki? That road will not go to Nananpur
 ” phir apane-aap badbadaya, “is muluk ke logon kii yahi aadat buree he
 Will do a hundred cross-examination
 are bhai, tumko janaa he, jaao
 
 
 Rustic bhuchha all! ”hiraman loosened the rope of oxen by bringing a car on the road of Nananpur
 belon ne dulki chaal chhodir kadamchaal pakadi
 Hirabai noticed, the road to Nananpur is really big
 hiraaman uski aankhon kii boli samajhataa he - “ghabaraane kii baat nahin
 This road will also go to Farbisganj, the people of Rah Ghat are very good
 
 
 ek ghadi raat tak ham log pahunch jaayenge”hirabai ko farbishganj pahunchne kii jaldi nahin
 He became so confident in Hiraman that there is no question of fear
 hiraaman ne pehle ji-bhar muskaraa liya
 Who sings that song! Hirabai is fond of both song and story
 
 
 iss! mahua ghatwarin?vah bolaa, “acha, jab aapako itnaa sock he to suniye mahua ghatwarin kaa kaa geet
 It also has a song and a song
 ”kitne dinon ke baad bhagwati ne yah hausala bhi puraa kar diya
 Jai Bhagwati Today Hiraman will end his mind
 vah hirabai kii thami hui muskuraahat ko dekhtaa rahaa
 "listen! Even today, the Parmar River has many old ghats of Mahua Ghatwarin
 isi muluk kii thi mahua! thi to ghatwarin, lekin sau satvanti main ek thi
 His father would remain unconscious day and night after drinking alcohol
 uski sauteli maan saachhaat raksoni! bahut bady najar-chaalak
 At night, he was familiar with a wide variety of people, who stole the ganja-daru-opium
 sabase ghutta-bhar hell-mail
 Mahua was a virgin
 lekin kaam karaate-karaate uski haddi nikaal di thi raksoni ne
 She became young, did not even talk about marriage
 ek raat kii baat suniye!”hiraaman ne dhire-dhire gunagunaakar galaa saaf kiya -he a-a-a- saavnaa-bhadva ke - r- umadal nadiya - main -main-yo-o-o,maiyo ge raini bhayavani-ho-e-e-e;tadqa-tadqe dhadqe courage-aa-aa moraaki hamahun je baar-nanhi re-e-e 
 
 
 
 ”o maan! sawan-bhadon kii umadi hui nadi, bhayaavanee raat, bijli kadkati he, main baari-quari nanhee bacchee, meraa kalejaa dhadqata he
 How to go to the pier alone? So too, to apply oil in the feet of foreigners and travelers! Sat-ma closed her bajjar-kiwadi
 aasmaan main megh hadbada uthe or harharakar barasaa hone lagi
 Mahua started crying, remembering her mother
 aaj uski maan rahati to aise durdin main kaleje se sataakar rakhti apni mahua beti ko he maia isi din ke liye, yahi dikhaane ke liye tumne kokh main rakhaa tha? mahua apni maan par gussayi- kyon vah akeli mar gai, ji-bhar kar kosti hui boli
 Hiraman aimed, Kehuni gagging at the Hirabai pillow, Magan staring at her in the song
 
 
 
 How ugly does it look! Hiraman created a shiver in the throat - "am-oon-oon-ree dienies mayo mori-ee-e, nonva mat mat kahe nahee marli sauri-ghar-a-a
 ehi dinavaan khatir chhinro dhiyatenhu posli ki tenu-doodh ugton 
 
 
 Hiraman gasped and asked, "does Bhakha even understand or listen to some empty song?" Heera said, "I understand
 ugton maane ubtan - jo deh main lagaate hai
 Hiraman was amazed and said, "iss!" 
 
 So what happened with crying and washing? The merchant paid the full price for Mahua
 bal pakadqar ghaseetata hua naav par chadhaa or maanjhi ko hukum diya, naav kholo, paal baandhi! palwali naav parvaali chidia kii tarah ud chali 
 Throughout the night, Mahua cried and cried
 saudagar ke naukaron ne bahut daraaya-dhamkaaya - chup raho, nahin te uthaakar pani main phenk denge
 Just then, Mahua understood the matter
 mor kaa tara megh kii aad se jaraa baahar aayaa, phir chhip gaya
 Here Mahua also jumped into the water with a splash
 
 
 
 a servant of the merchant was fascinated on seeing Mahua
 mahua kii peeth par vah bhi kuuda
 Swimming in the reverse stream is not a sport, so too it is in the river of Bhadon
 mahua asal ghatwarin kii beti thi
 The fish also gets tired in the water! The safari is going like a fish-like boisterous, water-ripping runaway
 or uske peeche saudagar kaa naukar pukaar-pukarkar kahata he - “mahua jaraa thamo, tumko pakadney nahin aa rahaa, tumhaara saathi hoon
 We will live together throughout our lives
 ” lekin 
 
 
 
 hiraaman kaa bahut priy geet he yah
 While singing Mahua Ghatwarin, a river of sawn-bhadas begins to rise in front of him; Lightning shines on Amavasya night and in dense clouds
 usee chamak main laharon se ladti hui baari-kumari mahua kii jhalak use mil jaati he
 The speed of the traveling fish becomes faster
 usko lagata he, vah khud saudagar kaa naukar he
 Mahua doesn't listen
 paratit karti nahin
 She does not even look back
 or vah thak gaya he, tairte-tairte
 This time it seems Mahua caught himself
 khud hi pakad main aa gai he
 He has touched Mahua, found it, his tiredness has gone away
 pandrah-bees saal tak umadi hui nadi kii ulti dhara main tairte hue uske man ko kinaaraa mil gaya he
 Nobody stops Anand's tears
 usne hirabai se apni geeli ankhen churaane kii koshish kii
 But heera was sitting in his mind not knowing since when
 hiraaman ne apni kaanpati hui boli ko kaabo main laakar belon ko jhidki di - “is geet main na jane kya he ki sunate hi donon thasathasa jate hai
 Looks like someone has put a hundred burdens on them
 ”hirabai lambii saans leti he
 Passion in Hiraman's limbs
 “tum to ustad ho mita!”“iss!”asin-kartik kaa suraj do baans din rahete hi kumhala jaataa he
 Before the sun sets, Nananpur has to be reached, Hiraman is explaining to his bulls - “open your steps and tie yourself up
 
 a 
 
 
 chhi 
 
 chhi! badqe bhaiyan! le-le-le-e he -ya!”nananpur tak vah apane belon ko lalkaarta rahaa
 Before every challenge he would remind his bulls of the past - do not remember how many Chaudhary's daughter had a train in the procession; How to beat everyone! Yes, take that step
 le-le-le! nananpur se farbishganj teen kos! do ghante or!nananpur ke haat par aajkal chaay bhi bikne lagi he
 Hiraman brought tea in his lotus
 
 
 
 The woman of the company knows that she, throughout the day, keeps drinking tea throughout the clock
 chaay he yaa jaan! hira hanste-hanste lot-pot ho rahi he - “are, tumse kisne kah diya ki kware aadmi ko chaay nahin pini chahie?”hiraaman lajaa gaya
 What did he say? 
 
 
 laaj kii baat
 But he has enjoyed it once
 sarakas company kii mem ke haath kii chaay pikar usne dekh liya he
 Big Grief Taseer! "drink Master!" Heera laughed! "iss!" The lamp was lit at Nananpur Haat
 hiraaman ne apana safari laalaten jalaakar pichhawa main lataka diya
 Nowadays even the villagers from five places away from the city have started thinking of themselves as cities
 bina roshni kii gaadi ko pakadqar chaalaan kar dete hai
 Twelve bucked! "don't call me Master
 ”“tum mere ustad ho
 It is written in our shastra, a teacher who is a good teacher and a teacher of a raga is also a master! "" Iss! sastar-puran also knows! 
 
 
 maine kya sikhaaya? main kya 
 
 ?”hira hanskar gunagunaane lagi - “he-a-a-a- saavnaa-bhadva ke-r 
 
 !”hiraaman achraj ke maare goonga ho gaya
 
 
 
 iss! itnaa tej jehan! hu-ba-hu mahua ghatwarin!gaadi sitadhar kii ek sukhi dhara kii utraai par gadhidakar neeche kii ore utari
 Hirabai held Hiraman's shoulder with one hand
 bahut der tak hiraaman ke kandhe par uski ungliyaan paddy raheen
 Hiraman stared and tried to focus on the shoulder, several times
 gaadi chadhai par pahaunchi to hira kii dhili ungliyaan phir tan gai
 The light of the city of Farbisganj is shining in front
 shahar se kuch dur hatakar meley kii roshni 
 
 
 Shadow dances around in the light of a lantern hanging in the tapper
 dabdbai aankhon se, har roshni surajamukhi phool kii tarah dikhaai padati he
 Farbisganj is Hiraman's home-duer! Do not know how many times he has come to Farbisganj
 meley kii ladani laadi he
 With a woman? Yes, one time
 uski bhabhi jis saal ai thi gaune main
 Similarly, the tarpaulin was surrounded by a carriage which was built around
 hiraaman apni gaadi ko tirpal se gher rahaa he, gaadiwan-pattee main
 As soon as morning, Rita Nautanki will be talking to the manager of the company and Hirabai
 parason mela khul rahaa he
 This time the palachatti is very frozen in the fair
 
 
 
 Just one night
 aaj raat-bhar hiraaman kii gaadi main rahegi vah
 
 
 
 hiraaman kii gaadi main nahin, ghar main!“kahan kii gaadi he? 
 
 
 Whoa, Hiraman! From which fair? What is loaded? ”the village carriers search for each other, put carts around and settle in
 apane gaanv ke lalamohar, dhunniram or palatdaas vagairah gaadivaanon ke dal ko dekhakar hiraaman achakachaa gaya
 On the other hand, Paltadas raced into Tupper
 maano baagh par najar pads gai
 Hiraman silenced everyone with a gesture
 phir gaadi kii ore kanakhi markar fusfusaaya- “chup! company kii aurat he, nautanki company kii
 "" Company -e-ee-ee! ""? The 
 
 
 ? ? 
 
 
 ! ”not one, now four Hiramans! The four looked at each other with surprise
 company naam main kitna asar he! hiraaman ne lakshya kiya, teenon ek saath satak-dam ho gaye
 Lalmohar expressed his desire to tell a little distance, only by gesture
 hiraaman ne tappar kii ore munh karke kaha, “hotil to nahin khulaa hoga koi, halwai ke yahan se pakki le aawein!”“hiraaman, jaraa idhar suno
 
 
 
 main kuch nahin khaauungi abhi
 Take, you eat
 ”“kya he, paisa? iss!” 
 
 
 Hiraman never ate raw in Farbisganj by paying money
 uske gaanv ke itane gaadiwan hai, kis din ke liye? vah chhu nahin saktaa paisa
 He said to Hirabai, "don't waste in idle, fair-market
 paisa rakhie
 Lalmohar too got close to Tupper after getting the chance
 usne salaam karte hue kaha, “chaar aadmi ke bhaat main do aadmi khusi se kha sakate hai
 The rice has been spread on the bass
 hen-hen-hen ! ham log ekahi gaanv ke hai
 Will Hiraman eat at Hotil and confectioner while living in gao-girmin? " Hiraman gave Lalmohar's hand a comment - "don't forget the bastard
 ”gaadi se chaar rassi dur jate-jate dhunniram ne apane kulbulate hue dil kii baat khol di - “iss! tum bhi khub ho hiraaman! us saal company kaa baagh, is baar company kii janaani!”hiraaman ne dabi aawaaj main kaha, “bhai re, yah ham logon ke muluk kii janaana nahin ki latapat boli sunakar bhi chup rah jaae
 One is a woman of the west, but of company! ”dhunniram expressed his doubts -“ But in the company, we hear that there is a hooker
 ”“dhat!” sabhi ne ek saath usko durdura diya, “kaisaa aadmi he! paturia rahegi company main bhala! dekho isaki budhdi
 Heard, have you ever seen it! ”dhunniram admitted his mistake
 palatdaas ko baat suujhi - “hiraaman bhai, janaana jaat akeli rahegi gaadi par? kuch bhi ho, janaana aakhir janaana hi he
 There is no need! ”everyone liked it
 hiraaman ne kaha, “baat thik he
 Overturn, you return, stay near the car
 or dekho, gapshap jaraa hoshiyaari se karnaa
 Yes! ”hiraman’s body emanates the aroma of the roses
 hiraaman karamsod he
 His body did not smell big for months that time
 lalamohar ne hiraaman kii gamchhi soongha lee - “e-ha!”hiraaman chalate-chalate ruuk gaya- “kya karen lalamohar bhai, jaraa kaho to! bady zidd karti he, kahati he, nautanki dekhnaa hi hoga
 "only in focus?" "and the village won't reach this point?" Hiraman said, "no! Who listened to a gimmick after watching a gimmick one night? 
 
 
 desi murgi vilayati chaal!”dhunniram ne poocha, “fokat main dekhne par bhi tumhaari bhaujai baat sunayegi?”lalamohar ke basa ke bagal main, ek lakdi kii dukaan ladakar aae hue gaadivaanon kaa basa he
 Miyan-trainer of Basa, Miyanzan Budhe, while drinking Safari Gudgudi asked, "brother, who has come with Meenabazar's laden arms?" Meenabazar! Meenabazar is called paturia-patti
 
 
 kya bolta he yah boodhaa miyaan? lalamohar ne hiraaman ke kaan main fusfusaakar kaha, “tumhaari deh meh-meh-mahakati he
 True! ”lahaswan is Lalmohar's servant-cartman
 umr main sabase chota he
 What if you have come for the first time? Has been employed with babu-babuinas since childhood
 vaharah-rahakar vaataavaran main kuch soonghataa he, naak sicodeqar
 Hiraman saw, the face of Lehswan is stained
 koun aa rahaa he dhaddhadata hua? - “koun, palatdaas? kya he?”palatdaas aakar khada ho gaya chupchaap
 His mouth was also glowing
 hiraaman ne poocha, “kya hua? bolte kyon nahin?”kya jawaab de palatdaas! hiraaman ne usko chetavanee de di thi, gapshap hoshiyaari se karnaa
 He sat quietly in the car seat, at Hiraman's place
 hirabai ne poocha, “tum bhi hiraaman ke saath ho?” palatdaas ne gardan hilaakar hami bhari
 Hirabai lay down again
 
 
 
 Hearing face-to-face and speech, the heart of the palace began to tremble; Do not know why
 haan! ramlila main siya sukumaari isi tarah thakee leti hui thi
 Jai! Siavar Ramchandra's Jai! 
 
 Palatadas began to have a mood in his mind
 vah das-vaisnav he, kirtaniya he
 Tired, Sita expressed her desire to move at the feet of the Queen, with the gesture of her fingers; As if dancing on the tracks of harmonium
 hirabai tamakkar baith gai - “are, pagal he kya? jaao, bhaago! 
 
 
 "palatadas felt, sparks are coming out of the eyes of the angry company woman - Chhatk - Chhattak!" He ran
 palatdaas kya jawaab de! vah mela se bhi bhaagane kaa upaay soch rahaa he
 Did not say anything
 hamako vyapaaree mil gaya
 Still have to go to Teesan and load the goods
 bhaat main to abhi der hai
 i will come back by then
 ”khate samay dhunniram or lahasanawaan ne palatdaas kii tokari-bhar ninda kii
 He is a little man
 kamina he
 Adds accounts of money and money
 khaane-pine ke baad lalamohar ke dal ne apana basa tod diya
 The dhunni and lahswan stole the car and walked on Hiraman's baasa, keeping the car leaking
 hiraaman ne chalate-chalate rukkar, lalamohar se kaha, “jaraa mere is kandhe kii sungho to
 Smell, don't you? ”lalmohar sniffed his shoulders and took eyes
 munh se asfoot shabd niklaa - “e - ha!”hiraaman ne kaha, “jaraa-sa haath rakhane par itani khushboo! 
 
 samajhe!” lalamohar ne hiraaman kaa haath pakad liya - “ kandhe par haath rakhaa tha, sach? 
 
 suno hiraaman, nautanki dekhne kaa aisa mauka phir kabhi haath nahin lagegaa
 Yes! "" You will also see? " The lights of Lalmohar's thirty-four square lit up
 basa par pahunchakar hiraaman ne dekha, tappar ke paas khada batiyaa rahaa he koi, hirabai se
 Dhanni and Lahswan said together, "where are you left behind?" The company has been searching very late
 
 
 !”hiraaman ne tappar ke paas jaakar dekha- are, yah to vahi baksaa dhonevaala naukar, jo champanagar meley main hirabai ko gaadi par bithakar andhere main gaayab ho gaya tha
 "hiraman has come!" Good thing, come here
 
 
 yah lo apana haada or yah lo apni dachhina! pachchis-pachchis, pachaas
 "hiraman felt, someone was pushed from the sky and dropped on the earth
 kisi ne kyon, is baksaa dhonevaala aadmi ne
 Where did you come from? The talk on his tongue remained on the tongue
 
 This Dachina! He stood silently
 hirabai boli, “lo pakadon! or suno, kal subah rauta company main aakar mujhase bhent karnaa
 Will make it close 
 
 
 Why don't you speak? ”lalmohar said,“ Elam-bukis is giving mistress, take Hiraman! Hiraman cut off and looked towards Lalmohar
 
 
 
 There is no way to speak to this Lalmohra
 dhunniram kii swagatokti sabhi ne suni, hirabai ne bhi - gaadi-bail chhodir nautanki kaise dekh saktaa he koi gaadiwan, meley main?hiraaman ne rupaya lete hue kaha, “kya bolenge!” usne hansane kii cheshtaa kii
 The woman of the company is going into the company
 hiraaman kaa kya! baksaa dhonevaala rasta dikhaata hua aage badhaa - “idhar se
 "hirabai stopped on the go
 hiraaman ke belon ko sambodhit karke boli, “acha, main chali bhaiyan
 The bulls shook their ears at the word brother
 “? ? 
 
 !”“bha-i-yo, aaj raat! di rauta sangeet company ke stage par! gulbadan dekhie, gulbadan! aapako yah jaanakar khushi hogi ki mathuramohan company kii mashhoor actress miss hiradevi, jisaki ek-ek adaa par hajaar jaan fida hai, is baar hamaari company main aa gai hai
 Remember aaj kii raat
 Miss Hiradevi Gulbadan
 
 ! ”this announcement of gimmickers is stirring in every strip of the fair
 
 
 hirabai? miss hiradevi? laila, gulbadan 
 
 ? philim actress ko maat karti he
 i am myself on your backing, what should i do to your love, heartily! It is my desire that i see you and i want to see you
 kirr-rr-rr-rr 
 
 
 Cuddle, Cube, Cube, Cube! har aadmi kaa dil nagada ho gaya he
 Lalmohar came to the race-gasp bassa- "hey, o Hiraman, what are you sitting here, let's see what is happening!" i am doing hi-bai-jaikar with Mu baja-gaza, chhapi-faharam
 ”hiraaman hadbadakar uthaa
 Lahswan said, “tunny Kaka, you stay on bass, i too can come
 ”dhunni kii baat koun sunata he
 The three people followed closely behind the Alanya party of the gimmick company
 har nukkad par rukkar, baaja band karke elaan kiya janaa he
 Hiraman Pulak arises at every word of declaration
 hirabai kaa naam, naam ke saath adaa-fida vagairah sunakar usne lalamohar kii peeth thapthapa di - “dhann he, dhann he! he yaa nahin?”lalamohar ne kaha, “ab bolo! ab bhi nautanki nahin dekhoge?” subah se hi dhunniram or lalamohar samajha rahe the, samajhakar haar chuke the - “company main ja kar bhent kar aao
 On the go, she has gone away
 ” lekin hiraaman kii bas ek baat - “dhatt, koun bhent karne jaae! company kii aurat, company main gai
 Now what to do with that! Not even China! ”he was disillusioned
 elaan sunne ke baad usne lalamohar se kaha, “jarur dekhnaa chahie, kyon lalamohar?”donon aapas main salaah karke rauta company kii ore chale
 On reaching the camp, Hiraman pointed to Lalmohar, the head of the questioning of Lalmohar
 lalamohar kacharaahi bolnaa jaanata he
 Lalmohar said to a black coatman, "babu Saheb, just listen!" The black coatman said with a nose-eyebrow - "what is? Why here? ”lalmohar's trashy quote went awry - Seeing the attitude, he said,“ Gulgul
 
 No no 
 
 Nightingale 
 
 
 nahin 
 
 
 
 ”hiraaman ne jhat-se samhaal diya - “hiradevi kidar rahati he, bataa sakate hai?” us aadmi kii ankhen hathaat laal ho gai
 Standing in front, the Nepali soldier called out, "why let these people come here?" "hiraman!" 
 
 Where did the same frugal voice come from? After removing the curtain of the camp, Hirabai called - come here, inside! 
 
 Look, brave! Recognize it yah meraa hiraaman he
 Got it? ”the Nepali concierge smiled looking at Hiraman and left
 kaale kotwale se jaakar kaha, “hirabai kaa aadmi he
 Did not stop! ”lalmohar brought a drink to the Nepalese court -“ Be eaten! ”“ Iss! Not one, five passes
 chaaron athniya! boli ki jab tak meley main ho, roj raat main aakar dekhnaa
 Takes care of everyone boli ki tumhaare or saathi he, sabhi ke liye paas le jaao
 Company's women talk is unique! Is it or not? ”lalmohar touched the pieces of red paper and looked -“ Pa-s! Whoa, Hiraman bhai! 
 
 
 lekin paanch paas lekar kya hoga? palatdaas to phir palatakar aayaa hi nahin he abhi tak
 Hiraman said, "let go of the unfortunate
 takadir main likhaa nahin
 
 
 Yes, first of all gurukams have to be eaten, that not even a single bird can know this thing in the village
 ”lalamohar ne uttejit hokar kaha, “koun saalaa bolegaa, gaanv main jaakar? palata ne agar badanaami kii to duusari baar se phir saath nahin laaounga
 "hiraman has given his bag to Hirabai today
 meley kaa kya thikaana! kism-kism ke pakitcot log har saal aate hai
 What confidence do your companions have! Heerabai agreed
 hiraaman ke kapade kii kaali thili ko usne apane chamade ke baks main band kar diya
 Open the fabric on the top of the box and the silky lining inside! The mind's pride is gone
 lalamohar or dhunniram ne milakar hiraaman kii budhdi kii tarif kii; uske bhagya ko saraahaa baar-baar
 Condemned her brother and sister-in-law, muttered
 hiraaman ke jaisaa hira bhai mila he, isiilie! koi doosraa bhai hota to 
 
 
 The gladiator's face hangs
 elaan sunate-sunate na jane kahan chalaa gaya ki ghadi-bhar saanj hone ke baad lautaa he
 Lalmohar has given a proprietary rebuke, with a rebuke - "sohda kahin ka!" Dhunniram said while giggling on the stove, "first decide who will be next to the car!" "who will be there, where will this elixir go?" The elixir was crying - "a-e-a-owner, join hands
" acco jhalak! bas, ek jhalak! hiraaman na udaartaapurvak kaha, “acha-acha, ek jhalak kyon, ek ghanta dekhnaa
 i will come ”nautanki shuru hone ke do ghante pehle hi nagada bajnaa shuru ho jaataa he
 And as soon as Nagada starts, people start breaking up like moths
 tiktaghar ke paas bheed dekhakar hiraaman ko bady hansee ai - “lalamohar, udhar dekh, kisi dhakkamadhukki kar rahe hai log!”“hiraaman bhaay!”“koun, palatdaas! kahan kii ladani aae?” lalamohar ne paraye gaanv ke aadmi kii tarah poocha
 Palatadas apologized with folded hands - "there is trouble; Whatever you punish, all is acceptable
 lekin sachhee baat kahen ki siya sukumaari 
 
 
 
 ”hiraaman ke man kaa purain nagade ke taal par viksit ho chukaa he
 He said, "look, turn around, don't understand that there is a child of the village
" dekho, tumhaare liye bhi paas diya he; paas le lo apana, tamasa dekho
 Lalmohar said, "but one will get a pass on cold
 bich-bich main lahasanawaan ko bhi 
 
 
 No need to tell anything to Palatadas
 vah lahasanawaan se baatcheet kar aayaa he abhi
 Lalmohar put forward another condition - "if this thing is known in the village somehow
" 
 !""RAM Ram!" Biting the tongue with the tooth, said Palatadas
 palatdaas ne bataaya- “athniya phatak idhar he!” phatak par khadey darban ne haath se paas lekar unke chehre ko baari-baari se dekha, bolaa, “yah to paas he
 Where did you get it? ”now someone listened to Lalmohar's trash! The court got nervous after seeing his attitude - "where will you get it?" Go ask your company
 chaar hi nahin, dekhie ek or he
 Lalmohar showed the fifth pass out of his pocket
 ek rupayavaale phatak par nepali darban khada tha
 Hiraman cried out, "A soldier Daju, got identification in the morning and forgot now?" The Nepalese concierge said, "herabai's man is all
" jane do
 If you are close then what stops you? ”stunning position! The three saw the cupboard for the first time from inside
 saamne kursii-benchwaale darje hai
 There is a picture of Ra ma-bana- gaaman on screen 
 palatdaas pahchaan gaya
 He greeted with folded hands, Ramsia Sukumari and Lakhanlala inscribed on the screen
 “jai ho, jai ho!” palatdaas kii ankhen bhar ai
 Hiraman said, "lalmohar, are the raids all standing or moving?" Lalmohar has become acquainted with the audience sitting next to him
 usne kaha, “khelaa abhi paradaa ke bheetar he
 Right now it is giving the people, for the time being
 ”palatdaas dholak bajaanaa jaanata he, isliye nagade ke taal par gardan hilaataa he or diyasalai par taal katata he
 Hiraman also got acquainted a few times by exchanging BD
 lalamohar ke parichit aadmi ne chadar se deh dhakte hue kaha, “naach shuru hone main abhi der he, tab tak ek neend le len
 
 
 
 sab darja se acha athniya darja
 It is at the highest place at the back
 jameen par garam puaal! he-he! kursii-bench par baithkar is sardi ke mausam main tamasa dekhanevaale abhi ghuch-ghuchakar uthenge chaah pine
 "the man said to his partner," Wake up when you start playing
 nahin-nahin, khelaa shuru hone par nahin, heria jab stage par utre, hamako jagaa dena
 "hiraman's heart felt a little bit
 
 
 
 Deer! The big lanky man seems to know
 usne lalamohar ko aankh ke ishaare se kaha, “is aadmi se batiyaane kii jarurat nahin
 "cube-cube-cube-strike!" The curtain arose
 he-e, he-e, hirabai shuru main hi utar gai stage par! kapadghar khachamakhch bhar gaya he
 Hiraman's face opened in surprise
 lalamohar ko na jane kyon aisi hansee aa rahi he
 He laughs at every verse of Hirabai's song, needlessly
 gulbadan darbar lagaakar baithi he
 Proclaiming; The person who will bring you a throne, will be given a reward
 
 
 
 Aji, is there such a fun, then be ready, bring it to the table! Kidqid-kiri-! Un danced! What a throat You know, this man says that Hirabai paan-beadi, cigarette-jarda eats nothing! She is right
 bady nemawali randi he
 Who says that is a prostitute! Where is missi in the tooth pouder se daant dho leti hogi
 certainly not
 qun aadmi he, baat kii bebaat karata he! company kii aurat ko paturia kahata he! tumko baat kyon lagi? koun he randi kaa bhadwa? maaro saale ko! maaro! teri 
 
 
 In the midst of the commotion, Hiraman's voice is tearing the cloakroom - "come, take off one's neck
" ”lalamohar dulali se patapat peethta ja rahaa he saamne ke logon ko
 Palatadas is riding on a man's chest - "brother, Siya abuses Sukumari, being a Muslim too?" Dhunniram was silent from the beginning
 marpet shuru hote hi vah kapadghar se nikalakar baahar bhaaga
 The manager of the black coat gimmick came rushing in with the Nepali soldier
 daaroga sahab ne hunter se peet-peet shuru kii
 After eating Hunter, Lalmohar woke up; Garbage began speaking in a speech - "your Majesty, let's kill, kill
" koi harj nahin
 But see this pass, one pass is also in the pakit
 dekh sakate hai hujur
 No tickets, pass! " 
 
 Then how will we leave the woman of the company in front of the people if they talk badly? ”the manager of the company understood everything
 usne daaroga ko samajhaayaa - “hujur, main samaj gaya
 All this bullying is from the Mathuramohan companymen
 tamaashe main jhagadaa khada karke company ko badnaam 
 
 nahin hujur, in logon ko chod dijie, hirabai ke aadmi he
 Poor life is in danger hujur se kaha tha na!”hirabai kaa naam sunate hi daaroga ne teenon ko chod diya
 But the trio was snatched away
 manager ne teenon ko ek rupayvaale darje main kursii par bithaaya - “aap log yaheen baithiye
 i send a drink ” kapadghar shant hua or hirabai stage par laut ai
 Nagada again woke up
 thodi der baad teenon ko ek hi saath dhunniram kaa khyal hua - are, dhunniram kahan gaya?“maalik, o maalik!” lahasanawaan kapadghar se baahar chillaakar pukaar rahaa he, “o lalamohar maa-li-k!”lalamohar ne taraswar main jawaab diya-”idhar se, udhar se! ekatakia phatak se
 "all the audience turned to Lalmohar
 lahasanawaan ko nepali sipaahi lalamohar ke paas le aayaa
 Lalmohar showed the pass by pocket
 lahasanawaan ne aate hi poocha, “maalik, koun aadmi kya bol rahaa tha? bolie to jaraa
 Make a face look, a glimpse of it! ”people saw the broad and flat chest of the blossom
 jade ke mausam main bhi khaali deh! 
 
 chele-chati ke saath hai ye log!lalamohar ne lahasanawaan ko shant kiya
 Do not ask the trio what they saw in the gimmick
 kissa kaise yaad rahe! hiraaman ko lagata tha, hirabai shuru se hi useeki ore takataki lagaakar dekh rahi he, ga rahi he, naach rahi he
 Lalmohar used to think, Hirabai looks towards him
 vah samaj gai he, hiraaman se bhi zyada powerwala aadmi he lalamohar! palatdaas kissa samajhataa he
 
 
 What else would be the matter of Raman
 vahi ram, vahi sita, vahi lakhanlaal or vahi raawan! siya sukumaari ko ram ji se chhinane ke liye raawan kii tarah-tarah kaa rup dharkar aata he
 Rama and Sita also change their forms
 yahan bhi takht-hajaaraa banaanevaala mali kaa betaa ram he
 Gulbadan is Mia Sukumari
 mali ke ladqe kaa dost lakhanlala he or sultan he raawan
 Dhunniram has high fever! Lehswan has got the best clown part
 
 Never take the tongue away, let not the livelihood go He wants to befriend the clown
 nahin lagaavega dosti, joker sahab?hiraaman ko ek geet kii aadhi kadi haath lagi he - “maare gaye gulfam!” koun tha yah gulfam? hirabai roti hui ga rahi thi- “aji haan, mare gaye gulfam!”tidididi bechaara gulfam!teenon ko duaali waapas dete hue police ke sipaahi ne kaha, “lathi-duaali lekar naach dekhne aate ho?”duusare din meley-bhar main yah baat fail gai - mathuramohan company se bhagkar ai he hirabai, isliye is baar mathuramohan company nahin ai hai
 
 
 
 uske gunde aae hai
 Heerabai is no less
 bady kelaad aurat he
 Thirteen-thirteen countryside is growing
 
 
 vaah meri jaan bhi kahe to koi! majaal he!das din 
 
 
 Day and night! All day long fare
 shaam hote hi nautanki kaa nagada bajane lagata
 Hearing the voice of Nagade, the call of Hirabai started hovering near the ears - Brother Mita
 
 
 hiraaman 
 
 ustad guru ji! hameshaa koi-na-koi baaja uske man ke kone main bajataa rahata, din-bhar
 Sometimes harmonium, sometimes nagada, sometimes dholak and sometimes hiraibai
 unheen saajon kii gat par hiraaman uthta-baithta, chalata-phirata
 The gimmick identifies him from the manager of the company to the veil
 
 
 hirabai kaa aadmi he
 Every night, at the time of starting the gimmick, the palatadas would pay homage to the stage, folding hands
 lalamohar, ek din apni kacharaahi boli sunaane gaya tha hirabai ko
 Heerabai did not recognize
 tab se uskaa dil chota ho gaya he
 His servant Lehswan has gone out of his hand, admitted to the gimmick company
 joker se uski dosti ho gai he
 Water fills and wash clothes throughout the day
 kahata he, gaanv main kya he jo jaayenge! lalamohar udhaas rahata he
 Dhunniram has gone home, getting sick
 hiraaman aaj subah se teen baar ladani ladakar stesan aa chukaa he
 Today, don't know why he is missing his eyebrow
 
 
 dhunniram ne kuch kah to nahin diya he, bukhaar kii jhonk main! yaheen kitna ater-patar bak rahaa tha - gulbadan, takht-hajaaraa! lahasanawaan mouj main he
 Must have seen Hirabai all day long
 qal kah rahaa tha, hiraaman maalik, tumhaare akwaal se khub mouj main hoon
 After washing the saree of Hirabai, the water of the pot becomes waterless
 usamen apni gamchhi dubaakar chod detaa hoon
 Take it, smell it? Every night, he hears through someone's mouth - heerabai is a prostitute
 kitne logon se lade vah! bina dekhe hi log kaise koi baat bolte hai! raja ko bhi log peeth-peeche gaali dete hai! aaj vah hirabai se milakar kahegaa, nautanki company main rahane se bahut badnaam karte hai log
 Why does the circus not work in the company? He dances in front of everyone, Hiraman's heart goes on burning all that time
 sarakas company main baagh ko 
 
 uske paas jane kii himmat koun karegaa! surakshit rahegi hirabai! kidar kii gaadi aa rahi he?“hiraaman, e hiraaman bhaay!” lalamohar kii boli sunakar hiraaman ne gardan modqar dekha
 
 
 
 kya ladakar laayaa he lalamohar?“tumko dhund rahi he hirabai, istimon par
 Is going ” ek hi saans main suna gaya
 Lalmohar's car has come from the fair itself
 “ja rahi he? kahan? hirabai railgadee se ja rahi he?”hiraaman ne gaadi khol di
 He said to the watchman of Malgudam, “brother, just keep looking at the cart
 aa rahe hai
 "maestro!" Zainana stood near the gate of the Musafirkhana covering Hirabai with her face and hands by wearing a tippet
 thili badhaati hui boli, “lo! he bhagwaan! bhent ho gai, chalo, main to ummid kho chuki thi
 i will not be able to see you now
 main ja rahi hoon guru ji!”baksaa dhonevaala aadmi aaj kot-patalun pahanakar babusahab ban gaya he
 Like the owners, he is giving orders to the porters - “to climb into Zanana status”
 acha?”hiraaman haath main thili lekar chupchaap khada rahaa
 Heerabai has removed the bag from inside the shirt
 chidia kii deh kii tarah garm he thili
 "the car is coming
 ” baksaa dhonevaale ne munh banaate hue hirabai kii ore dekha
 His facial expressions are clear - what is so much? Hirabai became fickle
 boli, “hiraaman, idhar aao, andar
 i am going back again to the Mathuramohan Company
 apane desh kii company he
 Vanaili fair will come? "heerabai placed his hand on Hiraman's shoulder, this time on the right shoulder
 phir apni thili se rupaya nikaalte hue boli, “ek garam chadar kharid lenaa
 Hiraman's speech broke, after so long - "iss! Always Rupaiya - Money! Keep the money What will the sheet do? ”hirabai's hand stopped
 usne hiraaman ke chehre ko gaur se dekha
 Then said, "your life has become very small
 kyon mita? mahua ghatwarin ko saudagar ne kharid jo liya he guru ji!”galaa bhar aayaa hirabai kaa
 The box carrier gave a voice from outside - "the carriage has arrived
" ” hiraaman kamare se baahar nikal aayaa
 The box-taker made a joker-like face of the gimmick and said, "run out of Lataparam
 bina tikat ke pakadesa to teen maheene kii hawa 
 
 
 Hiraman quietly stood out of the gate and stood up
 
 
 tisan kii baat, railway kaa raaj! nahin to is baksaa dhonevaale kaa munh sidhaa kar detaa hiraaman
 Hirabai went right into the front cell
 iss! itnaa taan! gaadi main baithkar bhi hiraaman kii ore dekh rahi he, tukur-tukur
 Seeing Lalmohar, the water rises, always back and forth; Always understands its share
 gaadi ne siti di
 Hiraman felt a sound coming out of him and went upstairs with a whistle - Ku-oo-oo! e-sss! -chi-e-e-chhak! The car moved
 hiraaman ne apane daahine pair ke anguthe ko baayein pair kii edi se kuchal liya
 The heart of the heart was cured
 hirabai haath kii bangnee saafee se cheharaa ponchhati he
 Safi gestures with a shake
 
 now go
 aakhri dibba gujara; platform khaali sab khaali 
 
 
 Khokhale 
 Freight coach As if the world became empty! Hiraman returned to his car
 hiraaman ne lalamohar se poocha, “tum kab tak laut rahe ho gaanv?”lalamohar bolaa, “abhi gaanv jaakar kya karenge? yahan to haada kamaane kaa mauka he! hirabai chali gai, mela ab tuutegaa
 "- "nice talk
 koi samaad dena he ghar?”lalamohar ne hiraaman ko samajhane kii koshish kii
 But Hiraman turned his car towards the road leading to the village
 ab meley main kya dharaa he! khokhla mela!railway line kii bagal se baiylgaadee kii kachi sadq gai he dur tak
 Hiraman has never climbed the train
 uske man main phir puraani laalasaa jhaanki, railgadee par savaar hokar, geet gaate hue jagarnath-dham jane kii laalasaa
 Don't dare to look at your empty tupper
 peeth main aaj bhi gudagudi lagati he
 Even today, Champa's flower blooms intermittently in his car
 ek geet kii tuuti kadi par nagade ka taal cat jaataa he, baar-baar!usne ulatakar dekha, bore bhi nahin, baans bhi nahin, baagh bhi nahin - pari devi 
 
 
 Mita
 
 Hira Devi 
 
 Mahua Ghatwarin - not Ko-e
 mare hue muhurto kii goongi awaajen mukhar hona chaahati he
 Hiraman's lips are shaking
 shaayad vah teesri kasam kha rahaa he - company kii aurat kii ladani
 Hiraman stubbornly slammed both his bulls, said with a double-whammy, "what do you see by turning back and forth towards the railway line?" Both the bulls opened the stage and caught pace
 hiraaman gunagunaane laga- “aji haan, maare gaye gulfam 
 
 !” The government has said that there is no provision for reservation for children of ordinary citizens in army public schools, but in the event of seats remaining vacant, local children are admitted
 raksha rajya mantri subhash bhamare ne rajyasabha main prashnkaal ke dauraan poorak sawaalon ke jawaab main yah jaankaree di
 He said that such schools are not run by the government and priority is given to the children of serving military personnel for admission in such schools
 tippaniyan He said that in 2017-18, seven VIP recommendations were received for admission to these schools
 unhone kaha ki pichley saal 12 aisi siforishein mili thim jinamein chaar maamalon main daakhila diya gaya
 He said that in other cases, children were not admitted due to non-availability of seats
 (is khabar ko enditivi team ne sampadit nahin kiya he
 It is published directly from the Syndicate feed
 ) Minister of State for Defense Subhash Bhamre gave this information in the Rajya Sabha in response to supplementary questions during the Question Hour
 unhone kaha ki aise skulon kaa sanchaalan sarkaar nahin karti he or aise skulon main daakhila ke liye sevarat sanyakarmiyon ke bacchon ko praathamikta di jaati he
 The comments unhone bataaya ki 2017-18 main in skulon main daakhila ke liye saat viipi siforishein milin
 He said that 12 such recommendations were received last year in which four cases were admitted
 unhone kaha ki anya maamalon main siton ke uplabdh nahin hone ke kaaran bacchon ko daakhila nahin mila
 (this news has not been edited by the NDTV team
 yah syndicate feed se sidhe prakashit kii gai he
 ) unhone bataaya ki 2017-18 main in skulon main daakhila ke liye saat viipi siforishein milin
 He said that 12 such recommendations were received last year in which four cases were admitted
 unhone kaha ki anya maamalon main siton ke uplabdh nahin hone ke kaaran bacchon ko daakhila nahin mila
 (this news has not been edited by the NDTV team
 yah syndicate feed se sidhe prakashit kii gai he
 ) (this news has not been edited by the NDTV team
 yah syndicate feed se sidhe prakashit kii gai he
 ) Prithviraj Chavan, Congress: Congress & NCP have completed discussions on all issues
 There is complete unanimity
 Tomorrow in Mumbai, we will have meeting with our other alliance parties
 Later in the day, we will have discussion with Shiv Sena
 # Maharashtrapic
 twitter
 com / fkpx3pshl0bataa den ki maharashtra kii 288 sadasyeey vidhansabha main bijepi ke paas 105, shivasena ke paas 56 siten hai, jabaki rakanpa or congress ke paas kramash: 54 or 44 siten hai
 Any party or coalition willing to form a government in the state will need the support of at least 145 mlas to prove a majority in the Assembly
 The coolest thing i saw last night in # Mumbai
 Wo hai Sultan
 My city is full of surprises pic
 twitter
 com / laikyuljkk After the Planning Commission, the Modi government is now planning to discontinue the five-year plans
 modi sarkaar ne maujuuda panchavarshiya yojana kii jagah 15 varshiya yojana shuru karne kaa faisla liya he
 The current five-year plan will run till March next year
 sutron ke mutabik, vikaas ke is vijan ko ek policy main badalane ke liemodi sarkaaranationas deveopment agenda (NDA) ke tahat saat saal kii ranneeti taiyaar karegi
 According to the new planning, its agenda will include social and economic sectors as well as issues like defense and internal security, while increasing the area of five-year plans
 2019-20 main hoga midtarm aprijal'endie' kii har teen saal main samiksha hogi or iskaa midtarm aprijal 2019-20 main hoga
 At the same time the next Finance Commission Award will be implemented and a new Lok Sabha will also be elected
 piemo se jude sutara ke mutabik, is agenda ko finance kamishan ke saath jodakar sarkaraarthik sansadhanoki uplabdhta pukhta karnaa chaahati he
 Nehru had started planning
 Let us know that after the Modi government took over the Planning Commission, which was established by the country's first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru in 1950
 modi sarkaar ne iskaa naam badalakar niti ayog kar diya
 It is no longer involved in the process of providing funds for planning
 nehru ne hi panchavarshiya yojana shuru kii thi
 The Indian weightlifting team will return home from the Goldcoast on Wednesday with 5 gold, two silver and two bronze medals
 is khel main bharat padak talika main awwal rahaa
 The performance of Indian weightlifters is commendable despite not having a full-time physio during the Games
 abhyaas satr ke dauraan har bharottolak ke paas coach nahin tha, kyonki saath aaye coach pratidin pratispardhaa sthal par rahete the
 Every year more than 500 dope tests, special supplements and nutritional supplements from Germany are the secret of the success of Indian weightlifters winning 5 gold medals in the 21st Commonwealth Games
 jab 12 saal kii mirabai ne uthaa liya tha lakdi kaa gattharabharat ke rashtriya coach vijay sharma ne kaha ,‘is pradarshan ke peeche pichley chaar saal kii mehnat he
 We made changes in training methods and also in the diet of the players
 ’ unhone kaha ,‘saai kii mess main har khilaadi ke liye samaan aahaar hota he, lekin alag-alag khelon main alag khuraaq kii jarurat hoti he
 We asked for a separate dose, which included nutritional supplements from Germany and special supplements ie mutton and pork, 'satish gave pain to India and won the gold medal for India Meerabai Chanu (48 kg), Sanjita Chanu (53 kg), Satish Shivalingam for India
 (77 kg), R
 Venkat Rahul (85 kg) and Poonam Yadav (69 kg) captured the gold medal, while P
K
 gururaja ( 56 kilo ) or pradeep singh ( 105 kilo ) ko rajat padak mili
 Vikas Thakur (94 kg) and Deepak Lather (69 kg) won bronze medals
 sanjeeta ne puraa kiya 'golden dabl', baniin gold coast queensharma ne kaha ,‘in bacchon ne pichley chaar saal main rashtriya shivi se 10-12 din se zyada kii chuttee nahin lee, itnaa anushaasit inkaa prashikshan rahaa
 The coach also said that stern steps were taken to deal with doping
 unhone kaha ,‘hamane rashtriya doping nirodhak agency kii madad se har saal 500 se zyada dope test kiye, aap record dekh sakate hai
 We instilled fear in the players about doping
 ’kaamanwealth games main medal jeetne vaale sabase yuva bhartiya vetaliftor bane latheraunhone kaha ,‘khilaadi dhokhaa kyon karte hai, kyonki unki khuraaq acchhee nahin hoti
 We took full care of their diet
 ’ bharatiyon kaa pradarshan bhale hi rashtramandal khelon main yaadgaar rahaa, lekin purnakalik physio kii kami jarur khali
 Sharma said, 'we could have won the medal in plus 105 kg yesterday, but Gurdeep Singh had a back injury and physio was very important
 hamane adhikariyon ko likhaa he ki bhavishya main aisa nahin hona chahie, ummid he ki is pradarshan ke baad hamaari suni jaaegi
 ' bharat ke top khilaadi pankaj adwani ne lakshmana ravat ke saath milakar buudhvaar ko final main pakistan ko haraakar asian team snooker championships kaa khitaab jeet liya
 Pankaj performed well against Mohammed Bilal in the first match
 haalanki pehla ank bilal ne banaaya, lekin iske baad pankaj ne gajab kaa khel dikhaa 83 ank kaa brake laga best of five final kii pehali baaji jeet lee
 India's fate depended on Pankaj's partner Laxman and he too did not disappoint
 lakshmana ne babar messiah ko ek bhi ank nahin banane diya or khud 73 ank kaa brake lagaakar jeet hasil kii
 In order to annihilate Pakistan, the pair of Pankaj and Laxman had to maintain form in the last doubles match and they did so
 iske saath hi bharat ne khitaabi muqabla 3-0 se apane naam kar liya
 In this tournament, Advani was the only player to not lose a single individual match in the team event
 is sijan adwani kaa ye doosraa asian khitaab he or kul milakar unka aathvaan khitaab
 Advani has won 6 billiards, a 6-raid and a team snooker title on the Asian circuit
 vahiin ravat kaa ye pehla khitaab he
 11:13 PM Barack Obama and Michelle Obamah departing from Capitol Hill, Obama couple, Trump and his wife leave farewell 10: 54 PM Narendra Modi congratulates Donald Trump, new president of US Congratulations @ realdonaldtrumpon assuming office as US President
 Best wishes in leading USA to greater achievements in the coming years
 - Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) January 20, 2017 Strengthen of the india-usa strategic partnership lies in our shared values and common interests
 — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi)january 20, 2017looking forward to working with president@realdonaldtrumpto further deepen india-us ties & realise the full potential of our cooperation
 - Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) January 20, 2017 10: 50 PM People will have to work with patriotism: Donald Trump says after taking oath as President - we will eradicate Islamic terrorism from this earth
 ab hamen kaam main jutana hoga
 We can make America great again
 10:44 PM hamaare liye ab america first hoga: donald trumparashtrapati pad kii shapath lene ke baad bole trump- garibi or berogari dur karnaa he
 Now we have to focus on the future
 hamaari aawaaj har jagah suni jaae
 America's interest is top for us
 10:38 PM logon kaa niyantran satta par hona chahie, desh main badlaav abhi se shuru honge: trumparashtrapati pad kii shapath lene ke baad bole trump- desh sadaa bana rahata he
 Americans are great
 2017 main is desh ke log phir shaasha banenge
 10:34 PM After taking oath of the President, Trump said, Trump will fight with the Mushkil, Trump said, we will all change the country together
 ye satta meri nahin janata kii he
 10:30 PM Donald Trump sworn in as 45th President of US 10: 24 PM Mike Pence sworn in as new Vice President of US: Late Trump will be sworn in as the President of Donald Trump 10: 11 PM Union on Vaidya's statement Dattatreya Hosbole of RSS said about the cleanliness, religious reservation and said that there is no need to dispute Manmohan Vaidya's statement
 unhone dharm aadhaarit aarakshan kii baat kii he
 10:03 PM Donald Trump arrived for the oath, about 1 million people gathered at the 45th Presidential Eclipse ceremony
 trump ke saath mike pence bhi manch par maujuud09:57 PM shapath grahan samaaroh: raashtrapati baraak obama or uparashtrapati jo biden manch par pahunche09:49 PM trump ke shapath grahan samaaroh sthal ke baahar pradarshnakariyon kii police se jhadappulice ne pradarshnakariyon ko rokane ke liye halkaa bal prayog kiya
 09:43 PM Central government approves draft of ordinance on Jallikattu, Union Home Ministry releases statement, Tamil Nadu government gets permission to issue this ordinance 09:37 PM Swearing-in ceremony: Donald Trump and Barack Obama reached Capitol Hill President's swearing-in ceremony, Donald Trump and Barack Obama arrive at Capitol Hill 09:24 PM Former President George Bush and Laura Bush arrive at Capitol Hill Bush couple arrives to attend Donald Trump's swearing-in ceremony on Monday at 09: 20 PM England batsman Alex Hales to miss the remainder of England's tour of India due to injury to his right hand — ANI (@ani_news) January 20, 201709: 17 PM The RSS will have a press conference in Jaipur in a while
 aresas prachaarak manmohan vaidya ne aarakshan ko lekar diya haibada bayaan09:10 PM white house pahunche donald trump, obama danpati ne kiya swagalmerica ke nae raashtrapati donald trump kaa shapath grahan samaaroh
 Former President Bill Clinton and his wife Hillary Clinton also reached Capitol Hill
 09:07 PM dharmik aarakshan se algaavvaad ko badhaava mil saktaa he: manmohan vaidyaaarakshan vaale bayaan par aresas vichaarak ne di safai
 Said- There is no historical background of religious reservation
 isse algaavvaad ko badhaava mil saktaa he
 We should promote education
 09:02 PM jammu-kashmir: kupwada ke langete ilaake main aatanki hamalaashuukravaar shaam kupwada ke langete ilaake main aatankwaadiyon ne sena kii chaowkee par hamalaa kar diya
 08:58 PM Delhi: JNU student in Green Park area allegedly sexual harassment According to the police, two people have allegedly sexually assaulted a 21-year-old JNU student in Green Park area of south Delhi
 08:51 PM uttar pradesh: chunaav ayog ne 13 dm or 8 esaspi kaa tabadalaa kiya08:40 PM jab tak samaan avasar nahin tab tak aarakshan rahe: manmohan vaidya08:17 PM dilli kaa nunatam taapmaana 6 degree celsius darj kiya gaya20
 8 degree Celsius maximum temperature
 kohre kii vajah se chaar trainen radd, 30 trainen deree se chal rahi hai
 08:14 PM Officials in Kolkata seized gold worth 10 crores gold was being smuggled from Myanmar, DRI officials seized 07:47 PM Law Ministry signed an ordinance related to Jallikattu 07:43 PM Raj Babbar Lucknow to Delhi Depart for, Ghulam Nabi Azad will come tomorrow 07: 40 PM The process of alliance is going on, things will be cleared soon: Raj Babbar Process of alliance on, soon things will be clear
 Ppl who say we didn't give positive response to SP are less aware-raj Babbar Cong UP Chiefpic
 twitter
 com / thua5v2brr— ANI UP (@aninewsup)january 20, 201707:32 PM goa main ranve se vimaan phisalane kii ghatana kii jaanch karegaa 3 sadasyon kaa panel3-member panel under Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau to probe mishap in which # jetairwaysplane skidded off Goa runway last month
 - Press Trust of India (@pti_news) January 20, 201707: 10 PM Reservation No RSS bailout: Lalu Prasad 07: 05 PM BSP supremo Mayawati will press conference tomorrow at 11: 06: 54 PM Rashtriya Lok Dal first of 8 candidates for UP election List released 06:50 PM Madras High Court dismissed the petition filed for continuation of Jallikattu
 06:35 PM congress kii 9 siton par sapa ummidavaaron kii ghoshnaa doorbhagyapurna: ajay maakan06:25 PM pudducheri mukhyamantri ve narayansami ne piem modi se jalikattu par adhyadesh laane kii sifarish kii06:15 PM benny putr rakesh verma ne kaisarganj se chunaav ladane par kiya inkarbeni putr rakesh verma ne kaisarganj se chunaav ladane par kiya inkaar
 Only willing to fight Barabanki and Ramnagar
 06:05 PM asaram ke bete narayan sai banaras se ladenge chunaavasharam ke bete narayan sai banaras ke shivpur vidhansabha se chunaav ladenge
 According to his supporters, if he does not get bail, he will contest from jail
 06:00 PM aarakshan ko khatm kar dena chahie: manmohan vaidyarashtriya swayan sevak sangh se sambhddha vichaarak manmohan vaidya ne kaha he ki aarakshan ke lambey samay tak lagu rahane kii vajah se algaav paidaa hoga
 It must end
 ise samaan maukey or shiksha se visthapit karnaa chahie
 05:40 PM UP Congress President Raj Babbar, who left for Delhi, stopped in Lucknow, UP Congress President Raj Babbar, who was returning to Delhi to attend the Central Election Committee meeting, stopped in Lucknow
 ve vahaan gathbandhan par sapa ke netaaon se baatcheet karenge
 05:35 PM Money game going on between BJP and RSS: In a complaint sent to KC Mittal Election Commission, Congress Legal Cell chief KC Mittal has alleged that BJP shows the record of the MLA candidate's election spending limit but RSS and Spends indiscriminately through volunteers from other Sangh Parivar organizations
 iskaa koi byora ayog tak nahin pahunchataa
 05:30 PM LJP MP Ramkishore Singh Kidnapping in case of Lok Janshakti Party MP Ramakishor Singh from Barwaishali along with 6 more people have been acquitted in 25 year old kidnapping case
 sabooton ke abhaav main unhen court se chhot mil gai he
 05:22 PM goods train derails in Hoshangabad derailed goods train derails in Hoshangabad, Madhya Pradesh
 durghatana kii vajah se neshnal haive 69 par baari jam
 05:20 PM Saina Nehwal Malaysia Grand Prix Gold semi-final 05: 10 PM Beni Prasad Verma's son Rakesh Verma from Kaiserganj SP candidate Pawan Pandey gets ticket from Ayodhya
 samaajawaadee party ne aaj subah 191 ummidavaaron kii list jari karne ke baad 18 or ummidavaaron ke naam jari kar die hai
 05:08 PM UP: The names of 191 candidates were declared earlier today before Akhilesh Yadav announced 18 more SP candidates
 05:02 PM desh main cricket ke alaava dher saare khelon main sambhaavna: piem modipiem modi dilli se video conferencing ke madhyam se kuccha main paryaton, samskruti va khel mantralayon ke conference ko sambodhit kar rahe hai
 04:58 PM Protest against Zaira Wasim in the downtown area of srinagar, Pakistani flag shown today along with protests in the downtown area of srinagar as Pakistan flags were waved
 pakistan samarthit naaron ke saath-saath dangal fame abhinetri zaayra wasim ke virodh main posters bhi dikhe
 He was further instructed to refrain from any such act
 04:55 PM infrastracchar ke saath-saath khel ke liye samuchit or samaveshi maahaul bhi jaruri: piem modipiem modi dilli se video conferencing ke madhyam se kuccha main paryaton, samskruti va khel mantralayon ke conference ko sambodhit kar rahe hai
 04:50 PM According to the changing global scenario, our work needs to be understood: PM modipm Modi is addressing the conference of Ministries of Tourism, Culture and Sports in Kutch through video conferencing from Delhi
 04:33 PM upi ke 403 siton par khadey honge ralod ummidavaar: masood ahmadrashtriya lok dal ke uttar pradesh main adhyaksh masood ahamed ne kaha he ki unki party pradesh ke saare 403 siton par chunaav ladegi
 For this, they are in talks with JD (U) as well as other parties
 04:30 PM bisisiai maamle main sunwaayee kii agali taarikh 24 november: supreme court04:25 PM narda sting tepe kii sibiai jaanch par kolkata hoicourt main sunwaayee puricaearing of three pils seeking CBI probe into # Naradasting tapes concludes, Calcutta High Court reserves order
 - Press Trust of India (@pti_news) January 20, 201704: 15 PM NIA arrested ULFA terrorist Gagan Hazarika in Assam 04: 10 PM No alliance with communal forces: Jayant Chaudhary In the public meeting said that they will not make any agreement with the communal forces
 haalanki congress or sapa ke saath gathbandhan ke sawaal par ve chuppi saadhe rahe
 04:05 PM UP Congress Election Committee meeting proposed at 6:30 pm today 03: 35 PM loss of Punjab directly benefits for Prakash Singh Badal: Navjot Singh Sidhu 03: 18 PM i will disclose the policy of loot of Badal family: Navjot Singh Sidhu i will expose Badal family's policy of loot and how they sold Punjab to build their own houses: Navjot Singh Sidhu in Chandigarhpic
 twitter
 com / phb7oi12t6 — ANI (@ani_news) January 20, 201703: 15 PM Urjit Patel told PAC that demonetisation will have short term effect on GDP RBI Guv also informed PAC that # demonetisationhas short term impact on GDP and it will have a positive in mid and long term: Sources — ANI (@ani_news) January 20, 201702: 50 PM Central Government on Jallikattu is finding way out with Tamil Nadu Government: Ravi Shankar Prasad Together is finding a way
 hamen ummid he ki jaldi koi samaadhaan nikal jaayegaa
 02:45 PM Imphal Court sentenced BJP leader n Biren Singh's son to 5 years in murder case Imphal Court sentences n Ajay Singh, son of BJP leader n Biren Singh to 5-yrs imprisonment & levies Rs50,000 fine for a youth's murder in 2011 — ANI (@ani_news) January 20, 201702: 20 PM Chhattisgarh: Security forces defuse tiffin bomb in Dantewada district 02: 04 PM may give 84 to 89 seats to Congress: Kiranmaye Nandaspa Vice President Kiranmayi Nanda said that Congress should be 84 Can give 89 seats from
 01:57 PM eta bas haadase main DM ne nyaay panchayat shiksha adhikari ko kiya suspenddm shambhunath ne nyaay panchayat shiksha adhikari ashok shakya ko kiya suspend
 01:50 PM Mumbai: People supported by Jallikattu demonstrated by creating a human chain 01: 42 PM SP candidate for the current seats of Congress, the Socialist Party fielded Congress candidates from Sahibabad, Khurja, Hapur, Shamli and Siana
 01:30 PM adhyadesh par ravivaar ko aa saktaa he notification: paneerselvamthe also expect day after tomorrow the notification of ordinance will appear
 It will happen: TN CM O
 Panneerselvam # jallikattupic
 twitter
 com / fyos06iliy— ANI (@ani_news)january 20, 201701:19 PM pita, putr, chachaa, bhatija sab pehle se hi ek hai: keshav prasad mauryakeshav prasad maurya ne kaha ki samaajawaadee party ne tikat kii ghoshnaa nahin kii, balki 6 maheene se parivaar main jo naatak chal rahaa tha uskaa pardaafash ho gaya he
 Father, son, uncle, nephew are all already together
 01:10 PM pashchim bengal: bas or motorcycle kii takkar, 2 kii maut01:04 PM akhilesh kii list main 39 SC or 50 muslim ummidavaar shaamil12:50 PM AIADMK saansad kal 2 baje karenge raashtrapati pranab mukherjee se mulakatleiationkh saansad jalikattu ke maamle par shanivaar dopaher 2 baje raashtrapati pranab mukherjee se mulaakaat karenge
 12:40 PM Beni Verma's son Rakesh Verma did not get ticket 12: 37 PM UP: Atul Pradhan gets ticket from Sardhana 12: 32 PM Tamil Nadu: Deepa Madhavan will arrive at 1 pm in support of Jallikattu, in support of Deepa Madhavan Jallikattu, niece of Marina Beechjayalalithaa Marina beach will reach at 1 o'clock
 12:25 PM kanpur se hasan rumi ko samaajawaadee party kaa tikat miltatik ahamed ko tikat nahin mila
 12:23 PM Noida Sunil Chaudhary Samajwadi Party candidate declared 12: 18 PM Naresh Agarwal's son Nitin Agarwal gets ticket from Hardoi 12: 12 PM UP: Azam Khan will contest from Rampur 12: 10 PM UP: Azam Khan's son Abdullah is sworn Ticket from 12: 08 PM from Jaswant Nagar to Shivpal Yadav Ticket 12: 06 PM UP: Akhilesh Yadav released the list of 191 candidates 12: 05 PM Delhi: Police arrested 4 with liquor bottles in Shahdara of Delhi
 Ahdra police found the bottle of wine around 7200 by a tempo
 police ne 4 aropiyon ko giraftaar kiya he
 Who hail from UP
 police maamle kii jaanch main juty he
 11:54 AM Patna High Court approves Human Chain on liquor ban 11:38 AM i will campaign for the party: Mulayam Singh 11: 36 AM Our party does not bargain: Mulayam Singh 11: 35 AM My prayers with Akhilesh: Mulayam Singh 11:30 AM Chennai: Stalin released for detention for stopping rail in support of Jallikattu 11: 26 AM Tamil Nadu: Kanimozhi appeals for sit-in protest in Coimbatore in support of Jallikattu - on the issue of Jallikattu All Party Meeting 10: 58 AM might consider an ordinance at a meeting of Tamil Nadu Cabinet Jlikttu Shambatk today
 10:43 AM centre ne ek hafte tak jalikattu par faisla na lene kii apil kijalikattu maamle par centre ne supreme court main arji lagaate hue is maamle main ek hafte tak faisla na lene kii apil kii
 10:26 AM UP: 3 officers suspended in Etah bus accident: Block Education Officer and Block Resource Officer were suspended in the case of Etah bus accident
 10:14 AM ham punjab ke haq main sochate hai: prakaash singh badal10:06 AM chunaav main jeet kii hetric lagaayenge: prakaash singh badalprakash singh badal ne aaj tak se baatcheet main kaha ki chunaav main jeet kii hetric lagaayenge
 10:00 AM: No demonetisation issue in Punjab elections: Prakash Singh Badal 09: 58 AM Car accident in Melbourne, 3 killed 09: 50 AM Chennai: Police detained DMK President Stalin, DMK President MK Stalin also in support of Jalikattu Rail Stop movement included
 police ne stallin ko hiraasat main liya
 09:40 AM In support of Jallikattu in Tamil Nadu, today, schools, colleges and businesses are closed on Friday in support of Jallikattu in Tamil Nadu
 09:22 AM mani londring cese main ED ne kishor bhajiyanvaala ko giraftaar kiya # edarrests Surat-based businessman # kishorebhajiawalain a money-laundering case registered post note ban
 - Press Trust of India (@pti_news) January 20, 201709: 12 AM Chennai: DMK President MK Stalin is also involved in Rail Stop movement in support of Jallikattu
 09:05 AM chennai: jalikattu ke samarthan main diemke kaa pradarshan08:50 AM tamilnadu sarkaar jalikattu par laaegi adhyadeshtamilnadu ke mukhyamantri paneerselvam ne kaha ki jalikattu par adhyadesh laaenge
 08:40 AM CM of Tamil Nadu appeals to end the demonstration Chief Minister Panneerselvam appealed to the people in support of Jijikattu to end the protest
 08:34 AM gujarat: tempo or car main takkar, 8 kii maut08:20 AM haryana: jat aarakshan andolan main duty main kotahi baratane par 1 IPS adhikari nilambitchandigarh: haryana ke grihasachiv ramanivas ne kaha ki jat aarakshan andolan main duty main kotahi baratane par 10 HPS or 1 ipies adhikari ko nilambit kiya gaya
 08:05 AM BJP should not be home to tainted leaders: Shiv Senasinivasena said in his mouthpiece Saamana that BJP should not become home to tainted leaders
 08:00 AM chennai: marina bich par virodh pradarshan, jalikattu ke samarthan main aaj skool bandanembers of South Indian Artists association, Nadigar Sangam to come out in support of # Jallikattutoday, AR Rahman to also remain present
 - ANI (@ani_news) January 20, 201706: 55 AM Delhi: 4 trains canceled due to fog, change in time of 11 and the number of people killed in suicide attacks in delay in 23 trains
 The latest figure of those who died after Gao's tour has been released
 raashtrapati yahaan ghayalon or mritkon ke parijanon se milane aae hue the
 In Mali, a suicide attack was targeted on Wednesday by a militia group trying to restore peace
 karj main dubi airline company air india kii hissedari bechney main safalataa na milane se pareshaan centre sarkaar ne vaikalpik intjaam ke taur par nayaa kadam uthaaya he
 The government has approved strategic sale in AIATSL, a subsidiary of Air India
 yah company ground handlling kaa kaam jaise yatriyon kii suraksha, cargo or ramp kaa kaam dekhati he
 On Tuesday, the Group of Ministers (gom) constituted by the central government approved the sale in its subsidiary AIATSL under Air India's Revival Plan
 is samooh main vitt mantri arun jetali or civil aviation mantri suresh prabhu bhi shaamil the
 It has been said by the government sources that the proceeds from the sale of AIATSL will be used to pay the debt of Air India
 air india par kitna he karjabata den ki air india par 50 hajaar karod se zyada kaa karj he, jisaki bharpai ke liye company main vinievesh kii koshishen kii ja rahi thim
 Now the Group of Ministers, headed by Arun Jaitley, has decided to divest 100 per cent stake in AIATSL to bail out Air India from debt
 civil aviation sachiv rajeev nayan choube ne ajtak se kaha, 'pehle kadam ke taur par air transport services limited kii bikri ke liye praarambhik soochna gyaapan (PIM) ke saath ruchi patr (EOI) ko manjuuri de di gai he
 'it will then be sold to IATSL after transfer to Special Purpose Company (SPV)
 is sambandh main espivi kaa gathan pehle hi kiya ja chukaa he
 What is AIATSL Company? Let us know that AIATSL was formed in June 2003 and 61 to the company in FY 2016-17
 66 karod rupee kaa phayda hua tha
 This company (AIATSL) provides different types of services for flights landing at the airport before the next flight
 haal hi main kendriya uddyan rajyamantri jayant sinha ne bataaya tha ki sarkaar philhal air india main vinievesh kaa faisla nahin le rahi he, isaki bajaay airline ke rivil plan par kaam kiya jayega
 After which the Group of Ministers on Tuesday decided to sell in AIATSL
 isse pehle air india ke 76 fisadi share bechney kaa faisla kiya gaya tha lekin 31 may tak iske liye koi company saamne nahin ai
 After this it was put in the freezer
 kahin torget puraa karnaa lakshya to nahinaise main sawaal uth rahe hai ki sarkaar ne kuch karod kii sahaayak company ko faisla kyon kiya
 It will be interesting to know that the government has set a target of 8 xxrep 4 0 crores from disinvestment in this financial year but only 16000 crores have been raised so far
 sarkaar is baat ke liye bhi khud ko taiyaar kar rahi he ki air india ki sabsidiari company ko bechney par sawaal bhi khadey honge
 Air India has several subsidiaries, including Air India Charters Limited, IAL Airport Services Limited, Airline Allied Services Limited and Hotel Corporation of India Limited Air India Engineering Services Limited, among them AIATSL is in profit then why is it being sold
 tufaan se machi tabaahi kaa jayja lene upi ke mukhyamantri yogi adityanath agra pahunch gaye hai
 Yogi Adityanath arrived at the SN Medical College first in the morning, where he met the injured
 iske baad yogi peedit pariwaron se mulaakaat karenge or prabhavit ilaakon kaa hawaii surveykshan bhi karenge
 Yogi Adityanath was campaigning in Karnataka amidst 73 deaths due to severe storm
 unki maujuudagi ko lekar vipaksh ne sawaal uthaae to yogi ko karnataka daura bich main chhodana padaa or ab wo apane pradesh waapas laut aae hai
 Yogi reached Agra on Friday night
 Agra: Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath meets rain & dust storm affected people at a hospital
 pic
 twitter
 com / ai70a6h4ln — ANI UP (@aninewsup) May 5, 2018 Actually, Yogi was on an election tour of Karnataka
 lekin uttar pradesh main jaanaleva tufaan se 73 logon kii maut or baari nuksaan ko lekar vipaksh ke hamalon ke bich siem yogi ko karnataka daura bich main hi chhodkar lautnaa padaa
 They will take stock of the damage and destruction caused by the storm in Agra
 yogi ke pahunchane se pehle sabhi adhikariyon ko raahat kii report taiyaar rakhane ke aadesh die gaye hai
 Please tell that the havoc of the storm has made 43 people in Agra alone, while a large number of people are reported injured
 akhilesh or mayawati ne bhi saadhaa nishanasapa mukhiya akhilesh yadav ne maare gayi logon ke prati shok vyakt karte hue twit kiya tha ki mukhyamantri ko karnataka kaa chunaav prachaar chhodkar tatkaal uttar pradesh laut aana chahie
 The public has chosen him to solve the problems of his state and not for the politics of Karnataka
 vahiin, basapa supremeo mayawati ne kaha ki kaaphi sankhya main logon kii maut ke baavjood pradhanmantri or uttar pradesh ke mukhyamantri apane swarthpurna chunavi hiton ko puraa karne ke liye karnataka ke chunaav prachaar main vyast hai
 73 people died and 91 others were injured in the typhoon that hit the state
 sabase buree tarah agra prabhavit hua, jahaan 43 logon kii maut hui or 51 anya ghayal hue
 The Government of Bangladesh has announced that the rebel soldiers of Bangladesh Rifles will be given amnesty
 gauratlab he ki rajdhani dhaka main bangladesh rifles ke jawan aapas main hi bhid gaye or ek duusare par grenade, eke-47 rifl se hamalaa kiya
 Earlier news was coming that 50 soldiers had died in it but later it could not be confirmed
 bangladesh kii pradhanmantri shaikh hasina ne cabinet kii immergency meeting bulaai or is sankat se ubarne ke liye sarkaar ne sena kii sahaayta bhi lee
 Bangladesh Rifles has its headquarters in Dhaka
 isamen kuch jawan sena se aate hai or kuch kii sidhi bhartee hoti he
 a bloody clash ensued between these two groups
 donon guton ne ek duusare par eke-47 rifl se hamalaa kiya or ek duusare par mortar-grenade daage
 The houses around the headquarters have been damaged
 intelegence beuro ne pradhanmantri narendra modi ko lekar bada alert jari kiya he
 According to the alert, 5 terrorists can target the Prime Minister on 15 August at the Red Fort
 itibipi ke jawan bhi rahenge tainaatibi ke alert ko dekhte huepradhanmantriki suraksha or majboot kii jaaegi
 Under his protection, ITBP answers and search dogs of Delhi Police personnel will also be deployed
 yaqub kii faansee se baukhalaaye aatankiphone kol intercept hone se suraksha agenciyon ko isasmbhavit hamaleki jaankaree mili he
 It is being told that terrorist Mumbai attack convict Yakub Memon is dazed by the death sentence and wants to take revenge by attacking the Prime Minister and Red Fort
 kehete hai sapanom main agar dam ho or hausalon me udaan to manzil dur nahin
 In the heart, wanting to go through something that makes the world salute you is often not so easy
 lekin raahen jitani bhi mushkil bhari kyon na ho sachhee lagan or jazbe ke saath kuch bhi naammumkin nahin he
 There is a similar story of Miss India Manushi Chillar
 bachapan se miss india banane kaa armaan liye maanushi ne apni padhai or baaki chizon main koi kasar nahin chodi
 While studying in medicine, Manushi was selected for Miss India
 apane khan-paan se lekar apane luks body language or apni doctorl kii padhai or claces ke bich main manage karnaa maanushi ke liye aasaan nahin tha
 Manushi's life was quite depressed for three months
 kehete hai ki kuch paane ke liye kuch khona bhi padataa he
 To decorate the crown of Miss India on her head, Manushi also had to make many sacrifices
 miss india banane ke baad jab maanushi dilli main timarpur sthit apane ghar pahunchi to vahaan unka bhavy swaagat kiya gaya
 Manushi told in a special conversation- 'I have worked hard to reach here
 mujhe meetha khaane kaa bahut shauk tha
 i especially loved laddus
 savere 4 baje uth kar workout karnaa, college janaa phir claces atend karnaa
 Many times it seemed that this is happening to me, but now when i look back, everything was worth it
 'maanushi ab puure ji jaan se miss world kii taiyaariyon main jute gai hai
 Manushi told- 'right now my whole focus is on Miss World Patent
 main koi bhi kasar nahin chhodana chaahati hum kyonki jis miss world taj ke liye puure desh ne 17 saal intjaar kiya he wo main apane deshavaasiyon ke liye jitna chaahati hum kyonki ab ye sirf akele meraa pageant nahin he puure india kaa pageant he
 'manushi will soon represent India in the Miss World Contest in China
 apane mast andaaj or hit filmon ke liye pahachaane jane vaale ranvir singh kii agali film 'kil dil' kaa first luk relies ho gaya he
 He is once again seen in Jhakaas style
 film main unke saath pariniti chopra or ali jafar bhi hai
 The film also stars Govinda
 is romantic ection film ko shaad ali ne diarect kiya he
 The film is releasing on 14 November
 film ko aditya chopra ne produs kiya he
 Shaad Ali directed 'jhoom Barabar Jhoom' in 2007, after which he is now ready to stand the test of audience again
 unki bataur diarector pehali film saathiya (2002) or uske baad banty or bubbly (2005) jabardast hit rahi thim
 Know here what was the condition of Tech world throughout the day ham yahaan aapako technology kii duniya kii 5 badi khabaren de rahe hai, neeche die gaye links par clic kar vistaar se pard sakate hai hamaari puri khabar
 
 
 whatsapp officer posted in India, can complain like this desh ke share bazaaron main shuukravaar ko shuruaati kaarobaar main teji dekhi gai
 Major index Sensex around 9 in the morning
 24 baje 53
 27,049 with a gain of 78 points
 65 par or nifti bhi lagbhag isi samay 13
 8,098, up 20 points
 90 par kaarobaar karte dekhe gaye
 Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) Sensex based on 30 stocks Sensex 52 in the morning
 28 ankon kii teji ke saath 27,048
 Sensitive Index Nifty 1 based on 15 and 50 shares of National Stock Exchange (NSE)
 35 ankon kii teji ke saath 8,087
 Opened at 05
 centre saatven vetan ayog kii siforeeshon ke kriyanvayan se utpann vyaktigat, pad yaa cader sambandhi visangitayon kaa pareekshan karne ke liye visangati samitiyaan gathit karegaa
 The Department of Personnel and Training has been authorized to deal with the salaries and related issues of officers of the All India Services - Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Police Service (IPS) and Indian Forest Service (AIFOS)
 vitt mantralay ne vetan panel kii siforeeshon ke kriyanvayan ko adhishuchet karne vaale aadesh main kaha he, 'carmik evam prashikshan vibhaag ayog kii siforeeshon ko lagu karne se utpann vyaktigat, pad vishisht evam cader vishisht visangatiyon kaa pareekshan karne ke liye visangati samitiyaan gathit karegaa
 'the three-member Seventh Central Pay Commission was divided on the issue of giving IAS officers a financial and career edge over officers of other services
 is ayog ne 19 november, 2015 ko apni report saunpi thi
 Currently, IAS officers get a two-year advantage over other services to join the panel to come on deputation to the Center
 iees adhikariyon ko anya badhat bhi praapt he
 The comments ipies samet 20 civil sevaaon ke hajaaron adhikariyon kaa pratinidhitiv karne vaala ek confederation vetanman or anya laabhon ke sandarbh main iees adhikariyon ke samaan laabh kii maang kar rahaa he
 (this news has not been edited by the NDTV team
 yah syndicate feed se sidhe prakashit kii gai he
 ) carmik evam prashikshan vibhaag ko akhil bhartiya sevaaon- bhartiya prashasnic seva (iees), bhartiya police seva (ipies) or bhartiya van seva (efoes) ke adhikariyon ke vetan or sambandhit muddon ke sambandh main karrwai ke liye adhikrut kiya gaya he
 The Finance Ministry, in an order notifying the implementation of the recommendations of the pay panel, said, 'department of Personnel and Training will set up discrepancy committees to examine individual, post-specific and cadre-specific discrepancies arising from the implementation of the recommendations of the Commission
 ' teen sadasyeey saatvaan kendriya vetan ayog iees adhikariyon ko anya sevaaon ke adhikariyon kii tulana main vittiya evam kariyar sambandhi badhat die jane ke mudde par vibhajit tha
 This commission submitted its report on 19 November 2015
 philhal iees adhikariyon ko centre main pratiniyukti par aane ke vaaste panel main shaamil hone main anya sevaaon kii tulana main do saal kii badhat milti he
 IAS officers also have other advantages
 tippaniyan a confederation representing thousands of officers of 20 civil services, including IPS, is seeking the same benefits as IAS officers in terms of pay scale and other benefits
 (is khabar ko enditivi team ne sampadit nahin kiya he
 It is published directly from the Syndicate feed
 ) The Finance Ministry, in an order notifying the implementation of the recommendations of the pay panel, said, 'department of Personnel and Training will set up discrepancy committees to examine individual, post-specific and cadre-specific discrepancies arising from the implementation of the recommendations of the Commission
 ' teen sadasyeey saatvaan kendriya vetan ayog iees adhikariyon ko anya sevaaon ke adhikariyon kii tulana main vittiya evam kariyar sambandhi badhat die jane ke mudde par vibhajit tha
 This commission submitted its report on 19 November 2015
 philhal iees adhikariyon ko centre main pratiniyukti par aane ke vaaste panel main shaamil hone main anya sevaaon kii tulana main do saal kii badhat milti he
 IAS officers also have other advantages
 tippaniyan a confederation representing thousands of officers of 20 civil services, including IPS, is seeking the same benefits as IAS officers in terms of pay scale and other benefits
 (is khabar ko enditivi team ne sampadit nahin kiya he
 It is published directly from the Syndicate feed
 ) Currently, IAS officers get a two-year advantage over other services to join the panel to come on deputation to the Center
 iees adhikariyon ko anya badhat bhi praapt he
 The comments ipies samet 20 civil sevaaon ke hajaaron adhikariyon kaa pratinidhitiv karne vaala ek confederation vetanman or anya laabhon ke sandarbh main iees adhikariyon ke samaan laabh kii maang kar rahaa he
 (this news has not been edited by the NDTV team
 yah syndicate feed se sidhe prakashit kii gai he
 ) ipies samet 20 civil sevaaon ke hajaaron adhikariyon kaa pratinidhitiv karne vaala ek confederation vetanman or anya laabhon ke sandarbh main iees adhikariyon ke samaan laabh kii maang kar rahaa he
 (this news has not been edited by the NDTV team
 yah syndicate feed se sidhe prakashit kii gai he
 ) (this news has not been edited by the NDTV team
 yah syndicate feed se sidhe prakashit kii gai he
 ) bhartiya tennis star somdev devvarman ne apni acchhee farm barkaraar rakhte hue sidhe seton main jeet darj karke french open ke duusare daur main jagah banaai jahaan ab unhen roger federer kii kadi chunauti kaa saamana karnaa hoga
 The comments kwalifire ke jariye mukhya dra main jagah banane vaale somdev ne purush ekal ke court-chah par khele gaye match main spain ke danniel munoj di laa nava ko do ghante 38 minute tak chale match main 6-3, 6-3, 7-5 se haraaya
 Somdev is playing in the French Open for the third time but he managed to reach the second round for the first time
 somdev ke liye haalanki duusare daur se aage badhanaa badi chunauti hogi kyonki unhen 17 baar ke grandslam champion or duusari variyata praapt federer se bhidana he jinhone pehle daur main spain ke kwalifire pablo kareno basta par 6-2, 6-2, 6-3 se jeet darj kii
 The Indian player adopted a strategy to dominate his Spanish rival from the start
 unhone pehle set ke aathven game main brake point lekar 5-3 kii badhat banaai
 Somdev saved two break points in the ninth game and scored four consecutive points to take the first set in 45 minutes
 kwalifire ke jariye mukhya dra main jagah banane vaale somdev ne purush ekal ke court-chah par khele gaye match main spain ke danniel munoj di laa nava ko do ghante 38 minute tak chale match main 6-3, 6-3, 7-5 se haraaya
 Somdev is playing in the French Open for the third time but he managed to reach the second round for the first time
 somdev ke liye haalanki duusare daur se aage badhanaa badi chunauti hogi kyonki unhen 17 baar ke grandslam champion or duusari variyata praapt federer se bhidana he jinhone pehle daur main spain ke kwalifire pablo kareno basta par 6-2, 6-2, 6-3 se jeet darj kii
 The Indian player adopted a strategy to dominate his Spanish rival from the start
 unhone pehle set ke aathven game main brake point lekar 5-3 kii badhat banaai
 Somdev saved two break points in the ninth game and scored four consecutive points to take the first set in 45 minutes
 somdev teesri baar french open main khel rahe hai lekin vah pehali baar duusare daur main pahunchane main safal rahe
 For Somdev, however, it will be a big challenge to move on from the second round as he will face 17-time Grand Slam champion and second-seeded Federer, who beat Spain qualifier Pablo Carreno Basta 6-2, 6-2, 6-3 in the first round
 Won
 bhartiya khilaadi ne shuru se hi apane spanish pratidwandvi par haaavee hone kii ranneeti apanaai
 He took a break point in the eighth game of the first set to take a 5–3 lead
 somdev ne nauven game main do brake point bachaae or lagaataar chaar ank banaakar 45 minute main pehla set apane naam kiya
 a post shared by Karanvir Bohra (@karanvirbohra) on Feb 12, 2018 at 1:13 am PSTA post shared by Karanvir Bohra (@karanvirbohra) on Jan 11, 2018 at 8:29 pm PSTA post shared by Karanvir Bohra (@karanvirbohra) on Jan 22, 2018 at 11:38 am PST sunrisers hyderabad ke star ballebaaj yuvaraj singh ne guuruuvaar ko kaha ki vah is samay chot se ubar rahe hai or ummid he ki vah indian premier lig (ipel) ke nauven sanskaran ke dauraan 6 may ko gujarat liance team ke saath hone vaale match main khel sakate hai
 Yuvraj suffered an ankle injury in the World T20 match against Australia
 isi chot ke kaaran vah semifinal main westeindies ke khilaaf nahin khel paae the
 He has not participated in the three matches in Hyderabad so far for the same reason
 yuvaraj sinhane khel ke saamaan banane vaali company puma ke ek kaarykram main kaha, ‘meri koshish chah may ko hone vaale match main khilne kii he
 i hope i will be fit by then
 main is baat ko lekar haalanki puri tarah aashwast nahin hum ki main chah may ko match khel paaungaa
 i only talked to my doctor yesterday
 ummid he ki main khel saktaa hum
 Hyderabad have recorded two defeats and one win in three matches played so far
 yuvarajka maananaa he ki unke alaava anbhavi ashish nehra ke team main aane se team kaaphi santulit ho jaaegi
 Nehra had a groin strain problem against Royal Challengers Bangalore in the first match, due to which he has not been able to play the remaining matches
 yuvaraj ne kaha, ‘sunrisers ne teen match khele hai jisamen do main haar or ek main jeet mili he
 At present, the case is 50-50
 saat match ke baad aap team ke pradarshan kii samiksha kijiega
 Yuvraj said, "I hope that he (nehra) will return soon and strengthen the bowling of the team
" main jab team main vaapasi karunga to ham donon team kii ballebaaji or gendbaaji donon ko majboot kar sakenge
 i hope that by the time i return to the team, the team will be in a good position by winning some matches
 ’ Bharat Bandh was called by Dalit organizations on Monday to protest the changes made by the Supreme Court in the SC / ST Act
 is dauraan puure desh main hinsak pradarshan hua, jisamen 10 logon kii maut hui or hazaron karodon kii sampatti swaha ho gai
 The impact of the Bharat Bandh is also visible on Tuesday
 haalanki, jin logon kaa naam hinsa failaane main sabase aage rahaa unki giraftaar abhi tak nahin hui he
 What is the effect in Madhya Pradesh? a case of murder has been registered against 6 including two policemen in Bhind, Madhya Pradesh
 vahiin kareeb 31 logon ke khilaaf hinsa failaane kaa cese darj kiya gaya he
 Apart from this, police have also registered a case against 1000 unknown people
 abhi bhi bhind, gwalior or muraina ke kai ilaakon main karfu laga hua he
 Internet is still closed in Bhind, Gwalior, Morena, Sagar and Balaghat districts of Madhya Pradesh
 bhind main karfu ke dauraan hi do guton main patharbaji kii ghatana hui he
 Madhya Pradesh: Total 8 people have died so far due to violence during protests over SC / ST Protection Act
 SP Gwalior says 'curfew has been relaxed in Maharajganj, situation is under control
 Curfew still imposed in four areas of the city
 'pic
 twitter
 com / fvjihufpvn— ANI (@ani)april 3, 2018uttar pradesh main kya asar?uttar pradesh ke meerut or gajiabad ke skulon ko band rakhaa gaya he
 In addition, Internet service has been closed in Meerut till 2 pm
 soshal media par bhi nigaraanee rakhi ja rahi he
 Allahabad Police has registered an FIR against 100 unidentified people in the demonstration on Monday
 meerut main aaj flag march kiya ja rahaa he
 The march is being led by IG, SSP and DM from the court area of the city
 meerut IG ke anusaar, meerut hinsa main 9 logon ke khilaaf exiaar darj kii gai he
 Apart from this, 160 people have been arrested
 unhone bataaya ki meerut main hinsa ke dauraan ek kii maut hui he, jisaki jaanch kii ja rahi he
 Even in Muzaffarnagar, the SSP of Muzaffarnagar has said that 134 people have been detained in the violence on 2 April
 unhone bataaya ki abhi bhi shahar main 5 PAC, 1 RAF kii team ko bulaayaa gaya he
 1000 people arrested in Rajasthan Around 1000 people have been arrested in Rajasthan for spreading violence
 vahiin rajya ke kai jilon main 23 CRPF kii companiyaan flag march kar rahi hai
 The situation is still tense in many places
 rajasthan ke 14 jilon main dhara 144 lagu he
 Apart from this, internet service has also been banned in all these districts
 haalanki, kisi bhi ilaake main karfu nahin lagaaya gaya he
 Police are currently identifying the rioters in the video of the violence
 ise bhi padhein
 
 band ke dauraan meerut ko dahalane ke peeche purv basapa vidhayak! upi police lagaaegi rasukakya hinsa failaane main basapa vidhayak shaamil?meerut main ashaanti failaane ke peeche ek netaa kii sajeesh kaa khulaasa hua he
 Meerut's SSP Manzil Saini has told that former BSP MLA Yogesh Verma is behind this whole Tandava
 unhone daawa kiya ki yogesh verma hinsa ke mukhya sajeeshkarta hai
 At the moment, Yogesh Verma has been arrested
 saath hi 200 se zyada se logon ko hiraasat main liya gaya he
 Cases are being registered against them
 kal kya-kya hua?essi / asti act main badlaav ke khilaaf dalit sanghathanon ne somvaar ko deshbhar main bharat band kaa aayojan kiya or is dauraan kai rajyon main jamkar hinsa, rail roko, aagjanee or patharbaji kii ghatnaayen huin
 a total of 10 people lost their lives and property worth crores was lost in this protest that turned into violence
 sthiti par niyantran ke liye badi sankhya main police ne updraviyon ko hiraasat main liya he
 Dalit organizations and their supporters stopped trains and blocked roads in different cities of the country on the call for Bharat bandh
 uttar pradesh se lekar bihar, madhyapradesh, rajasthan, maharashtra or uttarakhand samet kai rajyon main todphod, jam or aagjanee kii ghatnaayen huin
 The administration is constantly trying to restore law and order
 is bich bihar main 3,619, upi main 448 or jharkhand main 15 sau se zyada logon ko hiraasat main liya gaya he
 Internet was banned in many cities
 bombai hai court ne gharelu naukaraani ke saath balaatkaar ke doshi film abhinayta shaini ahuja ke khilaaf aarope tay karne par ek saptaah ke liye roak laga di he
 Earlier, the prosecution had sought time to respond to the petition seeking a copy of the medical and forensic reports
 severy main ek twarit adaalat ko shaini ke khilaaf kal aarope tay karne the
 Judge SA Bobade stayed the framing of charges against Shiney Ahuja for a week when the prosecution sought time to respond to the petition filed by Shiney
 shaini ke vakil ne ucch nyaayalay main yachika daakhil karke shaini or kathith balaatkaar kii shikaar ladki ke medical or forencik pareekshanon kii report maangi thi
 He claimed that the DNA reports of both did not match
 isse purv satr adaalat ne shaini ke vakil kii arji ko yah kahkar thukraa diya tha ki bachaav paksh ke vakil ko aarope tay karne par bahes ke dauraan in dastavej kii jarurat nahin he
 Shiney's lawyer Srikanth Shivade said that his client was released on bail by the High Court last week
 unhen buudhvaar ko satr adaalat main pesh hona he
 Shiney was arrested on June 15, when his domestic maid complained against him at the Oshiwara police station that Shiney raped her in her home
 shaini kii patni or baccha us vakt ghar main maujuud nahin the, jis vakt yah kathith ghatana hui
 Police had on August 13 filed a 109-page charge sheet against Shiney, accusing him of rape, wrongful restraint and intimidation
 aaropapatr main vah medical report bhi thim, jinase is baat kii pushti hoti he ki shaini ne apni naukaraani ke saath shaareerik sambandh banaae
 The momentum in the last four trading sessions in the stock markets was curbed today and after trading in the red zone for the day, the business ended with a fall
 sensex kii chaar dinon se 104 ank girakar 28335 ke str par sensex band hua jabaki nifti 33 ank girakar 8,768 par band hua
 The comments sensex subah 10
 23 at 7
 50 ankon kii giravat ke saath 28,415
 78 and Nifty also around 6 at the same time
 50 ankon kii kamajori ke saath 8,794
 Was seen doing business at 55
 bombay stock exange (bisai) kaa 30 sheyaron par aadhaarit samvedi suchakank sensex subah 3
 28,443 with a strength of 95 points
 23 par, jabaki neshnal stock exange (enesai) kaa 50 sheyaron par aadhaarit samvedi suchakank nifti 4
 8,805 with a strength of 65 points
 70 par khulaa
 Along with heavyweight stocks, midcap and smallcap stocks were also seen
 bisai kaa mid cap index 0
 Is trading with a strength of 2 per cent while 0 in the small cap index
 4 fisadi kii badhat dikh rahi thi
 Sensex 10 in the morning 7 baje 23
 28,415, a fall of 50 points
 78 par or nifti bhi lagbhag isi samay 6
 8,794 with a weakness of 50 points
 55 par kaarobaar karte dekhe gaye
 Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) Sensitive Index Sensex based on 30 stocks morning 3
 95 ankon kii majbootee ke saath 28,443
 23, while the National Stock Exchange (NSE) Sensitive Index Nifty 4 based on 50 shares
 65 ankon kii majbootee ke saath 8,805
 Opened at 70
 diggaj sheyaron ke saath hi midcap or smallcap sheyaron main bhi kharidari dekhne ko mil rahi thi
 BSE Mid Cap Index 0
 2 fisadi kii majbootee ke saath kaarobaar kar rahaa he jabaki small cap index main 0
 The gain was 4 percent
 diggaj sheyaron ke saath hi midcap or smallcap sheyaron main bhi kharidari dekhne ko mil rahi thi
 BSE Mid Cap Index 0
 2 fisadi kii majbootee ke saath kaarobaar kar rahaa he jabaki small cap index main 0
 The gain was 4 percent
 chunaav ayog ne chunaav chinh ke maamle par uttar pradesh kii mukhyamantri or bahujan samaaj party kii adhyaksh mayawati ko notice jari kiya he
 The Election Commission has said that Mayawati is promoting her party's election symbol elephant with public money
 ayog ne notice jari karte hue poocha he ki kyon na mayawati kii party kaa chunaav chinh badal diya jaae
 The commission has asked Mayawati to reply to the 12 August notice
 ayog ne mayawati ko sarkari paise kaa durupyog nahi karne kii bhi salaah di
 Significantly, Mayawati has constructed Ambedkar Udyan in Lucknow at a cost of crores of rupees, in which a large number of elephant statues have been installed
 saath hi khud mayawati or kanshiram kii bhi murtiyon lagaai gai hai
 a garden is being constructed in Noida adjacent to Delhi which is estimated to cost crores
 mayawati ke aise kadamon kii anya raajnneetik dalon ne khub aalochana bhi kii he
 Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Babulal Gaur gave a controversial statement on Friday
 maharashtra ke shani shinganapur mandir main mahilaon ke chabutare par puja karne kii maang ke bare main puche jane par gaur ne kaha ki 'are chodo! mahilaayein ghar main puja kar len yahi bahut he
 In the Shani Shingnapur temple, women are not allowed to worship on the platform
 Women can worship from home, says MP Home Minister Babulal Gaur on Shani Shingnapur temple issue
 pic
 twitter
 com / in0q9yc67n — ANI (@ani_news) January 29, 2016 Continues Controversy The state government has also jumped into the ongoing dispute between women and the trust
 sarkaar ne ahmednagar jila prashasan ko baatcheet karakar jald maamla sulajhane ke nirdesh die hai
 While giving this instruction, Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis had said that 'discrimination in the text of worship is not our culture
 maamle ko sulajhane ke liye prashasan ko uchit kadam uthaane chahie
 '350 women were taken into custody
 Earlier, on the insistence of worshiping in the temple, the adamant women had announced to worship on the platform on 26 January
 lekin saikadon mahilaon ko mandir se kareeb kareeb 80 kilometre dur hi roak liya gaya
 The administration also took about 350 women into custody
 haalanki kuch der baad unhen reeha kar diya gaya
 The women had asked for permission to go by helicopter, but it is against the tradition for women to go to the platform in the temple
 lekin 400mahilaon ne ekajute hokaryah parampara todane kii thaan lee he
 The women had sought permission to go to the temple by helicopter as barricades have been placed on the ground
 tuuti thi 400 saal puraani paramparakisi bhi hinsak takaraav ko rokane ke liye ahmednagar jile main police ne aihtiyathan bheed jamaa na hone dene ke nirdesh die hai
 Controversy has started since the visit of a female devotee to the Shani Shingnapur temple, about three hundred kilometers from Mumbai
 ek yuvati ne 400 saal puraani parampara ko todate hue shani kii murti par tel chadha diya tha
 After this, the temple administration had prepared the women police to stop the woman
 maharashtra ke pune main kuch chaatro ko ek pub main party karnaa mahangaa pad gaya
 Some domineering youths first molested girls and then, after opposing peers, they beat up all the students fiercely
 ghatana main ek chaatr gambhir rup se ghayal ho gaya
 Police have arrested three accused in this case while 2 accused are still absconding
 pune kii ek uniwarsity main lau department ke chaatr parth vyas or shantnu roy apni don mahila mitron ke saath koregaanv park main gastro baar gaye the
 After some time, accused Pranav Datar and some of his companions came to him and started harassing the female friend of Partha Vyas
 parth or uske doston ne jab iskaa virodh kiya to aropiyon ne donon ladakiyon ke saathchhedchhadshuru kar di
 Parth and Shantanu first tried to convince the accused but when the accused did not agree, they complained to the manager of the bar
 manager ne aropiyon ko pub se baahar nikaal diya
 Angry with this, the accused started waiting for the victims outside the pub
 or jaise ve chaaron chaatr baahar nikle aropiyon ne un par hamalaa kar diya
 The accused angrily hit the girls with belts and hit the boys with cement bricks
 is hamale main parth ke sir par eent lag jane se gahari chot aa gai
 He was admitted to the nearby Columbia Asia Hospital
 peediton ne is maamle kii soochna police ko di
 The police took action based on their complaint and arrested the three accused
 teenon par cese darj kar 14 din kii nyaayik hiraasat main bheja gaya he, jabaki police unke do anya saathiyon kii talash kar rahi he, jo maukey se faraar ho gaye the
 This is perhaps a unique case of its kind
 nadeem alam naam kaa ek shaksapakistan kaa purv cricketrandeem abbasi banakar BBC parcricket export bana hua tha
 He even joined panel discussion with former Indian cricketer Akash Chopra
 jab uski karatuut pakadi gai to BBC ke bhi hosh ud gaye
 Nadeem was an expert on BBC World News, BBC Asian Network and Radio Five, sharing knowledge of cricket
 bibisi kojab apni galati kaa pataa chalaa to usne asli nadeem abbasi se maafee maangi or maamle kii jaanch shuru kar di
 Abbasi said, "if i find Nadeem Alam somewhere, i will punch Pakistan in her face to hurt her honor
" bibisibahut bada santhaan he, use kisi ko export banane se pehle jarur jaanch kerani chahie thi
 Nadeem Abbasi played three Test matches for Pakistan in 1989
 46 varshiya abbasi philhal rawalpindi kii ek team ke coach hai
 This Pak cricketer never appeared on TV, so the audience was also cheated
 abbasi ne bataaya ki ve sirf 1996 main pakistan ketivi channel par aae the
 It would be said by chance that the age of Nadeem Alam is also equal to Nadeem Abbasi
 wo sirf apane home toun hudersfield ke liye cricketkhela he
 Huddersfield is part of Yorkshire, England
 aam janata ke liye buudhvaar se chali lakhanu metro pehle din hi takniki kharabi kaa shikaar ho gai
 There was a malfunction in the metro between Durgapuri and Mawaiya, from where the passengers are being evacuated
 baaki chaaron metro oparational hai
 The metro got stuck in Alambagh for 20 minutes due to technical fault
 buudhvaar ko metro aam janata ke liye subah 6 baje transport nagar se charbagh ke liye chali
 The metro was launched a day earlier in the presence of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Home Minister Rajnath Singh and Governor Ram Naik on Tuesday
 udghaatan ke dauraan siem yogi ne kaha ki samay par yojana kaa puraa hona kaaphi badi baat he
 Congratulations to Shri Sreedharanji and his entire team for completing the Metro in a limited time
 unhone kaha ki logon ko isamen safar karne ke liye intjaar nahin karnaa padegaa, buudhvaar se hi logon ko iskaa laabh milegaa
 Yogi said that our government is working on a plan to run the metro in many cities of the state
 ab alag-alag metro korporation ke tahat kaam naa hokar balki rajya main ek hiupi metro korporeshnaki shuruyaat karenge
 i would like Sreedharanji to be the Principal Advisor of that corporation
 akhilesh yadav kaa dream project lakhanu metrolkhanu metro kai vajahon se charchaa main he, ek vajah siyaasi he to duusari desh ke sabase shandaar metro rail hona bhi ek vajah he
 Former Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav used to keep this metro rail in his dream project
 yahi vajah he ki metro ke shilanyas se lekar metro ke banane tak ke har safar main vah saath rahe, lekin chunaav haar gaye to iskaa udghaatan nahin kar sake
 Even though the difference of Congress President Rahul Gandhi's victory from Amethi Lok Sabha seat has come down to one lakh votes in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, now his strategization is trying to increase this figure
 lakshya he ki bijepi ummidavaar smriti irani ko is baar kam se kam paanch lakh voton se haraane kaa
 For this, the party strategists have made a special strategy and instructed the workers to ensure this
 
 Facing the rigorous election campaign of the BJP, Congress is pouring full power to ensure the victory of party president Rahul Gandhi by a good margin in Amethi
 yahaan samasya 2014 aam chunaav main tab shuru hui, jab bhaajapa ne amethi main rahul ke viruddh smriti irani ko utaara
 The new candidate gave a good challenge to the then Congress Vice President and 3 of his wins in 2009
 7 lakh antar ko ghataakar keval ek lakh maton tak laa diya
 This was an eye-opener for the Congress managers, after which they quickly got involved in working to maintain the margin of victory for Rahul
 iske baad sookshm stareey yojana ke tahat 'purva' yani gaanvstar tak tiimon ko bheja gaya or online ap shakti ke jariye lagaataar nigaraanee rakhi gai
 Shakti is an online platform through which the performance of booth level groups across the country is tracked
 amethi main party samanvayakon ne ek vishesh prayaas bhi kiya he, jahaan rahul ko party ke pradhanmantri pad ke ummidavaar ke taur par pesh kiya gaya he
 Apart from reforming the party's system, activists have been asked to ensure a margin of victory of five lakh votes
 sutron kaa kahana he ki tathakthith pratidwandvi samaajawaadee party ke prabhaavshaalee netaaon kii bhi is kaary main madad lee ja rahi he
 The SP-BSP alliance has distanced itself from the Congress in the general election, but Akhilesh Yadav's party SP had a pre-poll alliance with the Congress in the 2017 assembly elections and the alliance between the two parties has not ended completely
 sutron kaa kahana he ki uttar pradesh ke varisht congress netaa pramod tiwari kii sapa va basapa ke sthaneey netaaon se rahul ko samarthan dene ke liye kai baar baatcheet hui he
 He also appealed to the party workers to work unitedly for the goal
 rajasthan ke kai hisson main aaj subah bukamp ke jatke mahasoos kiye gaye
 The areas of Jaisalmer and Barmer have suffered more from earthquakes
 richter paimaane par bukamp kii tivrata 5
 3 were recorded
 bukamp se prabhavit ilaakon main 3 logon ke ghayal hone kii bhi khabar he
 About 20 houses have been damaged
 sonar fort ko bhi nuksaan pahunchaa he
 The earthquake occurred around 7
20 am
 brazil ke purvottar ilaake fortaleja ke ek nitaclub main raat main hui golibari main 14 logon ke maare jane kii khabar he
 Sierra State security secretary Andre Costa said that we can confirm the deaths of 14 people
 siyaara kii rajdhani fortaleja he
 Costa said other injured people have been hospitalized in critical condition but cannot tell how many people have been injured
 hamalaa karne vaale kisi bhi sandigdh ko police abhi tak pakad nahin pai he
 The attack is believed to be the result of a confrontation between a drug gang
 haalanki, police ne isaki pushti nahin kii he
 Shooting in Brazil kills at least 14 in dance clubhttps: / / t
 co / rtfr7qlffe— Reuters World (@reutersworld)january 27, 2018mili jaankaree ke anusaar, hamalavar teen kaaron main aae the, wo kareeb der raat 12:30 baje nitaclub pahunche or danaa-dan firing shuru kar di
 They fired for about 30 minutes
 olerounder cricketer irafaan pathan ne television par prasaarit hone vaale ek dance riality sho main ek sensesnal debyue kiya he
 In this episode aired on Sunday, Irrfan Pathan gave a blazing performance on the song 'ochinta Ta Ta Chita Chita' from Akshay Kumar's film Rowdy Rathore
 badoda ke rahane vaale 30 saal ke olerounder yuvaraj ne apane parformens se jajon kaa dil to jeeta hi, ve khud bhi apane is chupe hue tallent se prabhavit dikhe
 After the performance, Irrfan said, 'I will now take it as a new challenge because this show itself is a journey from a non-dancer to a dancer
 ye mere liye kuch nayaa seekhney vaala anubhav hoga
 Comments is sho se irafaan ko jo bhi aamadani hogi vah unke foundation cricket academy of pathans ko jaaegi
 This foundation works for the poor and deprived children of the society, in which Irfan is helped by his elder brother Yusuf Pathan
 is sho ke jaj bollywood actor shahid kapur, diarector karan johar, koreographer ganesh hegade or dancer lauren gotleeb hai
 Yuvraj, a 30-year-old all-rounder from Baroda, not only won the hearts of the judges with his performance, but he himself was impressed by this hidden talent
 parformens ke baad irafaan ne kaha, 'main ab ise ek nai chunauti kii tarah luungaa kyonki ye sho hi ek non-dancer se lekar dancer banane kaa safar he
 This will be a new learning experience for me
 'tippaniyan Whatever income Irfan earns from this show will go to his Foundation Cricket Academy of Pathans
 yah foundation samaaj ke garib or vanchit bacchon ke liye kaam karata he, isamen irafaan kii madad unke bade bhai usoof pathan karte hai
 The show is judged by Bollywood actor Shahid Kapoor, director Karan Johar, choreographer Ganesh Hegde and dancer Lauren Gottlieb
 parformens ke baad irafaan ne kaha, 'main ab ise ek nai chunauti kii tarah luungaa kyonki ye sho hi ek non-dancer se lekar dancer banane kaa safar he
 This will be a new learning experience for me
 'tippaniyan Whatever income Irfan earns from this show will go to his Foundation Cricket Academy of Pathans
 yah foundation samaaj ke garib or vanchit bacchon ke liye kaam karata he, isamen irafaan kii madad unke bade bhai usoof pathan karte hai
 The show is judged by Bollywood actor Shahid Kapoor, director Karan Johar, choreographer Ganesh Hegde and dancer Lauren Gottlieb
 is sho se irafaan ko jo bhi aamadani hogi vah unke foundation cricket academy of pathans ko jaaegi
 This foundation works for the poor and deprived children of the society, in which Irfan is helped by his elder brother Yusuf Pathan
 is sho ke jaj bollywood actor shahid kapur, diarector karan johar, koreographer ganesh hegade or dancer lauren gotleeb hai
 The show is judged by Bollywood actor Shahid Kapoor, director Karan Johar, choreographer Ganesh Hegde and dancer Lauren Gottlieb
 bharat kii under-17 footbal team ne dostana mukaable main italy kii under-17 team ko 2-0 se haraakar itihaas rach diya
 It is the same Italian youth team that won the World Cup
 yah behad shaktishaalee team ke taur par jaani jaati he
 Thrilled with this win, Virender Sehwag has given praise to the Indian team in his own style
 unhone twit kiya, 'hamane italy ko haraa diya
 Congratulations to the Under-17 team on their great win
 italy kii idli ban gai!'yaay ! We have beaten Italy
 Congratulations to the under 17 @ indianfootballon the spectacular victory
 Italy ki idli ban gayi !— Virender Sehwag (@virendersehwag)may 19, 2017europe daure par he bhartiya timbharat ke liye abhijit sarkaar ne 31wein minute or rahul praveen ne 80wein minute main gol kiye
 This year, the team is on a tour of Europe in preparation for the Under-17 World Cup to be played in India
 bhartiya team match main adhiktar samay italy par haaavee rahi
 He did not give much chance to the host team
 komal thatal ne aathven minute main hi bharat ko badhat dilaa di hoti, lekin italy ke golkeeper ne unke shot ko roak liya
 Minister in the Uttar Pradesh government Dharam Pal Singh has given a controversial statement
 dharmpal ne ram mandir nirmaan main ho rahi deree ke liye supreme court ko jimmedaar tehraaya he
 The state's irrigation minister Dharampal said in Shahjahanpur, "ram temple will be built in Ayodhya
 aap, ham, sabhi log or jaj bhi jaanate he ki ayodhya bhagwaan ram kii janmabhumi he, par supreme court is maamle main kotahi barat rahaa he
 i do not understand how the court can do this? Please tell that Dharmapal Singh reached Shahjahanpur to take stock of the progress of cleaning the canals
 unhone kaha ki pichhlaa chunaav narendra modi ne vikaas ke naam par ladaa or unka naaraa tha 'sabakaa saath sabakaa vikaas'
 But when we take the name of Ram, you say that you are asking for votes in the name of Ram, and when you do not take the name, you say that you have forgotten Ram
 dharmpal singh ne kaha ki jo sab main raman karata he wo ram hai or ayodhya main ram kaa bhavy mandir banegaa
 Dharampal Singh termed Om Prakash Rajbhar's statement as wrong
 bataa den ki dharmpal singh yogi sarkaar main bahut ahmiyat rakhte hai
 He is also the minister in charge of Gorakhpur
 bataa den ki rashtriya swayamsevak sangh 25 november ko ayodhya main ram mandir mudde par janaagrah raily kaa aayojan karegaa
 On the same day, Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray is also reaching Ayodhya to emphasize on the Ram temple construction issue
 2019 loksabhaa chunaav main ram mandir bada mudda banane ja rahaa he
 On this issue, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad also has the support of organizing the Janaagraha rally in Ayodhya on 25 November by the RSS
 inamen hajaaron sadhu-santon ke hissaa lene kii bhi sambhaavna he
 The Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha's district vice-president in Chief Minister Raman Singh's hometown Rajnandgaon has been caught red-handed while smuggling liquor in large quantities
 chhattisgarh kaa yah jila maharashtra or madhya pradesh kii sarhad se sata hua he
 Due to this, there is often large scale smuggling of liquor from both the states
 jaankaree ke mutabik, maharaashtra or madhya pradesh se aane vaali sharaab kii gunvattta chhattisgarh se acchhee hoti he
 It also costs less
 isliye yah rasta sharaab taskari ke liye mile kaa pathar sabit ho rahaa he
 Alok Soni, the vice-president of the BJP Yuva Morcha arrested in the case of liquor smuggling
 bijepi yuva morcha kaa yah upaadhyaksh sharaab taskari ke saath hi apni rajnatik sakriyata, mukhyamantri raman singh or unke saansad bete abhishek singh se kareebi hone ke chalate rajnatik galiyaaron main charchaa main aa gaye he
 With the fun of Holi, there is political uproar due to the assembly elections in the state
 sharaab taskari ke aaropee banaae gaye yuva morcha ke upaadhyaksh alok soni ke saath mukhyamantri raman singh or saansad abhishek singh kii photo soshal media main khub viral ho rahi he
 The Congress is questioning what the state headman and his son's close association with the smuggler of illicit liquor indicates
 bataaya jaataa he ki ghumka thana kshetra main 12 peti deshi sharaab ke saath bijepi netaa alok soni, mubarak ali or gajanand janghel giraftaar kiye gaye
 Alcohol is said to be from Madhya Pradesh
 yahsharabek vine main rakhi gai thi
 All three accused were in this van
 police is maamle main cese darj karke jaanch kar rahi he
 Pakistan executed four other prisoners sentenced to death on Wednesday
 disambar main mrityudand par lagi roak hataane ke baad se ab tak desh main kul 59 logon ko faansee di ja chuki he
 Abdul Razzaq Chauhan and Jalil alias Jalal Morejo were hanged in Sukkur jail in Sindh province
 chouhan ne ek sthaneey madrase main saatvin kaksha ke ek chaatr kii hatya kii thi or use 2003 main mrityudand diya gaya tha
 Morezo was convicted of killing a man in 1997 due to an old controversy
 anya do aparaadhiyon shahbaaj ali ko central jail sahiwal or gulam yaccin ko central jail bahawalpur main faansee di gai
 Shahbaz killed a boy in 1998 due to a land dispute and Yasin was sentenced to death in 2002 for raping and killing a woman
 pakistan ne pichley varsh disambar main peshawar ke ek skool main hue narsanhaar ke baad aatankwaad sambandhi maamalon main faansee par lagi roak hataa di thi
 About 150 people were killed in this attack, most of them children
 iske baad 10 march ko sabhi maamalon ke sandarbh main yah roak hataa di gai thi
 So far, around 60 prisoners have been executed despite criticism from local and international human rights groups
 desh kii vibhinn jelon main 8,000 se adhik kaidi aise hai, jinhen mrityudand diya gaya he
 Recently, former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J
 who came out of jail in a corruption case
 jayalalita ko ek or maamle main centre sarkaar se raahat mil sakati he
 It is reported that the Modi government of the Center has agreed to an out-of-court agreement between Jayalalithaa and the Income Tax Department in the case of failing to file income tax returns for two consecutive years (1991-92 and 1991-93) two decades ago
 
 jayalalita ke saath is aapraadhik maamle main unki kareebi raheen shashikala natarajan bhi sahaaaropee hai
 Earlier in August, the central government constituted a committee in the case on Jayalalithaa's application, which meant that the government could have an agreement between the tax department and Jayalalithaa without court permission and intervention
 sutron kaa kahana he ki is maamle main samiti ne jayalalita ke paksh main faisla diya he
 Let us tell you that Jayalalithaa has had a good relationship with Narendra Modi for a long time
 is saal janvari main supreme court ne 66 saal kii netaa or tamilnadu kii tatkaaleen mukhyamantri par tex aparaadh maamle main chennai hoicourt ko mukadmaa chalaane kaa nirdesh diya tha
 Jayalalithaa has been convicted by the court in a corruption case and she cannot contest elections for 10 years
 supreme court unhen doshamukt karata he, tabhi vah chunaav lard paaengi
 She has been in jail for three weeks and is currently out on bail
 supreme court ne jaya se 10 disambar tak apil se jude sabhi dastavej jamaa karne kaa nirdesh diya he
 Along with this, the court has also said that if she fails to submit, then she can be arrested again
 giraftaar ke baad jaya ne apane sabase bharosemand panniraselvam ko rajya kaa mukhyamantri banaaya thi
 The delayed arrival of monsoon has already been predicted in North India, which is experiencing severe heat
 dhire-dhire kadamon se aage bad rahe monsoon se lag rahaa tha ki maidani ilaakon main kuch dinon baad raahat milegi
 But due to the cyclonic storm 'vayu', a fear has arisen that it should not take away the monsoon cloud
 agar aisa hua to uttar bharat main haahaakaar much jayega
 Because farmers in the entire plains depend on monsoon rains for farming
 vaise to monsoon pehle se hi deree se chal rahaa he, lekin agar wo 80 se 90 kimi prati ghante kii raftaar se chalane vaale vaayu chakravaat kii chapet main aa gaya to kisaanon ko bahut nuksaan uthaanaa padegaa
 If the monsoon does not stop, then the clouds will not rain
 badal nahin barase to uttar bharat main sookhe kii sthiti paidaa ho jaaegi
 Alert in Gujarat: However, the Indian Meteorological Department has warned of cyclonic storms in the coastal areas of Gujarat
 mausam vibhaag ke mutabik arab sagar se uthne vaala chakravaati tufaan vaayu 75 kilometre se lekar adhiktam 135 kilometre prati ghanta kii raftaar ke saath pradesh ke kai ilaakon main chalegaa
 a cyclonic storm is expected to hit the Saurashtra coast on June 12-13
 tufaan ke kaaran ahmedabad, gandhinagar or rajkot samet tatavarti ilaake verawal, bhuj or surat main halki barish ho sakati he
 Due to the cyclone, there is a possibility of heavy rains with strong winds in many areas including Bhavnagar, Amreli, Somnath, Veraval, Jamnagar, Porbandar and Kutch in Saurashtra
 dhire-dhire aage bad rahaa he monasoonek saptaah kii deree se aae dakshini-pashchimi monsoon ko lekar bhartiya mausam vigyaan vibhaag ke vaigyanikon kaa kahana he ki monsoon dakshini arab sagar, lakshadweep ke adhikansh hisson or kerala or dakshin tamilnadu ke kuch hisson main aage badha he
 He also said that by Tuesday the conditions were getting favorable for the advance of the monsoon in some parts of the northeastern states
 kerala main monsoon ke 1 june se aane ke asaar the, lekin isane ek saptaah kii deree ke saath shanivaar ko kerala tat par dastak di
 According to the statement released by the Indian Meteorological Department on Sunday, till Tuesday, the southern Arabian Sea, Lakshadweep and parts of Kerala, Tamil Nadu, the south-west, southeast, east-central and north-east and west-central of the Bay of Bengal The conditions are favorable for the southwest monsoon to proceed in the Bay of Bengal and parts of the Central Arabian Sea
 madhya pradesh kii rajdhani bhopal or soobe kii aarthik rajdhani kahe jane vaale indore ne jald metro daudane kii ore ek kadam or aage badha diya he
 On Monday, an mou was signed between the Center and the state government and the Madhya Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation for the Bhopal and Indore Metro Rail Project in New Delhi
 ye hastakshar kendriya shahari or awaas maamalon ke mantri hardip singh puri or madhya pradesh ke nagareey vikaas or awaas mantri jayavardhan singh kii upasthiti main kiye gaye
 The effort of Madhya Pradesh government is to start the metro service in both cities by the year 2023
 aapako bataa den ki bhopal metro rail project main 27
 Two corridors will be built in 87 kilometers
 ek coridor karond sarkal se ames tak jayega
 Length of this corridor 14
 99 kilometre hogi
 At the same time, the second corridor will go from Bhadbhada intersection to Ratnagiri intersection, which is about 12
 88 kilometre lanbaa hoga
 The total cost of the Bhopal metro project will be around Rs 6,941 crore 40 lakh
 indore main 31 kilometre lanbaa coridormini mumbai kahi jane vaali madhya pradesh kii aarthik rajdhani indore main metro rail project main 31
 a 55-km ring line will be formed
 ye coridor bengali chauraahey se vijaynagar, airport hote hue palasia tak jaaegi
 The total cost of this project will be around Rs 7,500 crore 80 lakh
 aapako bataa den ki bhopal or indore main metro project ko modi sarkaar kii cabinet main loksabhaa chunaavon se pehle hi sweekruti di ja chuki he
 The Bhopal and Indore Metro Rail Projects will be implemented by the Madhya Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation
 yah bharat sarkaar or madhya pradesh sarkaar kii 50-50 hissedari vaali joint venture company hogi
 The company will act as a special purpose vehicle (SPV) to complete the project
 company kaa ek board of diarectors hoga, jisamen 10 diarector honge
 The Government of India will nominate 5 directors including the chairman of the board, while the state government will nominate 5 directors including the managing director
 bangaleru test main australia par 75 ran se jeet se har koi gadgad he
 Various celebrities from different regions congratulated Virat's army on this victory
 jaise hi team india ne australia kaa 10waan wicket giraaya soshal media par is jeet kaa jashn shuru ho gaya
 Anjum Chopra, Mohammed Shami, Mohammad Kaif Netim tweeted congratulating India
 kolkata main australia ke khilaaf aitihaasik jeet ke nayak rahe vivies lakshmana ne team india kii khulkar tarif kii
 Virender Sehwag also tweeted and congratulated Team India in his unique style
 Kismat , Neend aur is pitch par Bhartiya bowlers se ladna mushkil hi nahi namumkin hai
 India India
 
 - Virender Sehwag (@virendersehwag) March 7, 2017 WHAT a MATCH! Kohli will remember this for a long time, as will everyone who witnessed this
 # indvaus— Mohammad Kaif (@mohammadkaif)march 7, 2017congrats Team India on a fabulous,scintillating win👏loved the determination,fight&agression of each and every player👌keep it up👍 # indvaus— VVS Laxman (@vvslaxman281)march 7, 2017well done boys congratulation xxrep 4 👏 👍— Mohammed Shami (@mdshami11)march 7, 2017bharat ne 75 ranon se jeeta maichabengaleru test bharat ne 75 ranon se jeet liya he
 The entire Australian team was all out for 112 runs
 duusari pari main aar
 Ashwin bowled brilliantly
 aswin ne 41 ran dekar 6 wicket jatke
 Let us tell that the first match in Pune was lost by Team India by 333 runs
 australia ne apane aakhri 6 wicket maatr 11 ranon ke antar par khoe
 The four-match series is now 1–1
 trade unionon kii hadtaal ke dauraan pashchim bengal se jagah-jagah se hinsa kii khabaren aa rahi hai
 In Murshidabad, CPM and Trinamool supporters clashed and lathi-sticks were fired from both sides and stones were also showered at each other
 haalanki is dauraan yahaan police bhi maujuud thi, lekin wo chupchaap dekhati rahi
 But later police lathi-charged them and removed them from there
 darasal, sipiem hadtaal ke samarthan main hai, jabaki trinmul iske virodh main he
 The comments vaise, pashchim bengal main hadtaal kaa vyapak asar dekhne ko mil rahaa he
 Women have also joined the strike in a big way
 kolkata ke dharmatala main hadtaal samarthak mahilaayein police se bhidati nazar ain
 The women were constantly shouting slogans
 mahila police unhen rokane pahunchi or mahilaon ko jabardastee hiraasat main liya gaya
 They were taken in police vehicles
 haalanki uske baavjood bhi hadataaliyon ne apana pradarshan jari rakhaa
 There have also been reports of clashes between police and protesters from several other cities of West Bengal during the bandh
 iske alaava sodpur main bhi train roak rahe pradarshnakariyon par police ne lathicharge kiya
 In North 24 Parganas district, protesters tried to stop the train
 vaise, pashchim bengal main hadtaal kaa vyapak asar dekhne ko mil rahaa he
 Women have also joined the strike in a big way
 kolkata ke dharmatala main hadtaal samarthak mahilaayein police se bhidati nazar ain
 The women were constantly shouting slogans
 mahila police unhen rokane pahunchi or mahilaon ko jabardastee hiraasat main liya gaya
 They were taken in police vehicles
 haalanki uske baavjood bhi hadataaliyon ne apana pradarshan jari rakhaa
 There have also been reports of clashes between police and protesters from several other cities of West Bengal during the bandh
 iske alaava sodpur main bhi train roak rahe pradarshnakariyon par police ne lathicharge kiya
 In North 24 Parganas district, protesters tried to stop the train
 band ke dauraan pashchim bengal ke kai or shaharon se police or pradarshnakariyon ke bich jhadap kii khabaren bhi hai
 Apart from this, police also lathi-charged the protesters who were stopping the train in Sodpur
 north 24 pargana zile main bhi pradarshnakariyon ne train rokane kii koshish kii
 a new screwdriver has surfaced in the case of firing on Iqbal Kaskar, brother of underworld kingpin Dawood Ibrahim
 mumbai police ne kaha he ki hamale ke vakt ikbaal kaskar maukey par maujuud nahin tha
 Rajkumar Bhadekar, DCP of Mumbai Police, said that Iqbal Kaskar was meeting at the house at the time of the attack
 taaja ghatnakram ke maddenjar mumbai police ne alert jari kar diya he
 On the other hand, underworld gangster Chhota Rajan's name has been revealed in the preliminary investigation in the case of firing on Iqbal Kaskar
 is golibari main kaskar batch gaya tha, jabaki uskaa surakshaguard maaraa gaya tha
 a senior police officer said, "(in this case of firing) Rajan's name has come up
" philhal is bare main kuch kahana jaldibaji hogi
 This remains to be verified
 chunki daaud or rajan pratidwandvi hai, ham is ghatana ke liye duusare ko jimmedaar nahin tehra sakate
 "according to another officer, Kaskar also has problems with many others and the police is also investigating whether the firing was a result of personal enmity
" isi bich, do giraftaar aropiyon kii pahchaan mumbai nivasee saiyad ali (29) or indra khatari ke rup hui he
 Khatri is probably from Nepal
 police ke anusaar is golibari main kaskar ke angrakshak aarif saiyad abu bukha ko chah goliyaan lageen or aspataal le jane se pehle hi usne dam tod diya
 On Tuesday night, May 17, four gunmen opened fire on Kaskar in southern Mumbai, but he survived
 jeje aspataal ke sameep se do sandigdh hamalavar giraftaar kiye gaye jabaki baaki do bhaag niklaa
 Kaskar Sara Sahara Mall is accused in land grabbing case
 bharat or australia ke bich pehla testapane niyat samay04 disambar se shuru nahin ho rahaa he, yah khabar to pehle hi aa chuki he lekin ab ek or badi khabar yah he ki pehla test bristben ke bajaae edilade main hoga
 Late Australian cricketer Phillip Hugh was also currently living here
 bharat or australia ke bich pehla test edilade ovel main hoga
 The first Test was scheduled to be held in Brisbane from 4 December but was postponed following the untimely death of Australian cricketer Philip Hughes
 iske saath hi doosraa test jo bristben main hona tha uski taarikh bhi tay ho gai he
 Now the first match of the border-gavaskar Test series will be held in Adelaide on 9–13 December, while the second Test will be played in Brisbane on 17–21 December, the third Test in Melbourne on 26–30 December and the fourth Test in Sydney on 6–10 January
 cricket australia ne apane board kii baithak ke baad beeti raat bhartiya cricket board se daure ko lekar baatcheet kii
 At the players' meeting on Friday, it was decided that it is not possible to play the Test in Brisbane from 4 December as Hughes is to be cremated just a day before that
 huge kaa antim sanskaar 3 disambar ko3 disambar ko philip huge ke antim sanskaar main australian test team, huge ke antim match main shaamil new southwells or dakshin australia ke khilaadiyon ke saath-saath kai vartmaan or purv cricketer shaamil honge
 Captain Michael Clarke will arrive there on Monday in a Neil Network helicopter
 clark jo team main chune jane ke baavjood bristben test ke liye feet nahin the lekin ab unke edilade test main khilne kii puri sambhaavna he
 Hughes shifted to Adelaide in 2012–13
 cricket australia ke ek adhikari ne bataaya ki huge ke nidhan ke baad kii sthiti main bhartiya board ne bahut sahyog diya he
 Hughes has also played for Mumbai Indians and has been a friend of many players of the Indian cricket team
 aisi sthiti main bhartiya team ke bhi is antim sanskaar main shaamil hone kii puri sambhaavna he
 However, an official said that it may not be possible for the entire team to be present there
 pakistan main bharat se baatcheet ko lekar do tarah ke gut banate najar aa rahe hai
 One group in the Pakistani parliament is in favor of starting a limited dialogue with India, while the other group insists on negotiating India on the basis of conditions
 cricketer se rajaneta bane imran khan kii party ne pakistani sansad memnvaaj sarkaarper bharat se saajha baatcheet ko aage badhaane se pehle sharton ko lekar dawaab bananaa shuru kar diya he
 Common talks between the two countries have stalled since the Mumbai terror attacks
 standing cameti ne die the sujhaviske pehle pakistani sansad kii ek standig cameti nesarkaar ko suzavadiya tha ki vah bharat ke saath kashmir, pani kii samasya, vyapaar, samskruti or sanchaar ke maamalon main baatcheet shuru kare
 But it also said that the government should limit the scope of talks with India
 pakistan taharik-e-insaaf ne cameti ke prastaav ko thukaraate hue sarkaar ke saamne shart rakhi he ki vah baatcheet tabhi shuru kare jab bharat saajha vaarta par sahmati jataae
 It seems that Jasprit Bumrah and Choot are going together in the 12th season of the Indian Premier League (IPL)
 sijan ke pehle match main dilli capitals ke khilaaf khud ko chotil karne ke baad shanivaar ko sunrisers hyderabad (SRH) or mumbai indiens (MI) ke bich khele gaye mukaable ke dauraan unke daaen aankh ke upar ek kaale dhabbe kaa nishaan dekha gaya
 The match played at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium in Hyderabad saw a black spot on Bumrah's right eye
 sutron se mili jaankaree ke mutabik unhen practice ke dauraan yah chot lagi he
 According to news agency IANS, Bumrah was hit by a ball during practice
 durbhagyavash, fielding ke liye istemaal kii jane vaali genden thodi naram hoti hai or yah sirf chot thi or iskaa aankh par koi gambhir prabhaav nahin padaa
 The news of the injury is being seen as a crisis for Mumbai Indians as well as Team India
 sabhi kii nigahen bumraah ke chot par tiki hui hai kyonki vah na sirf mumbai indiens ke tej gendbaaj hai, balki bhartiya captain viraat kohli ke liye team india main ek mukhya hathiyaar bhi hai
 Explain that in view of the upcoming World Cup, every effort is being made to ensure that they do not suffer any injury before going to this tournament to be held in England
 ipel ke 12wein sijan ke pehle match main jasprit bumraah ko lagi dardanaak chot ke baad bhartiya team ke physio patric farhat ne bumraah kii chot kii sthiti kii jaanch karne ke liye turant mumbai indiens team ke physio nitin patel se sampark kiya tha
 Bumrah did not come to bat in Mumbai's innings in that match
 haalanki, baad main yah khabar ai ki yah team prabandhan kaa maamla tha, jinhen ehtiyaati kadam uthaanaa tha kyonki vah aagma vishwa cap ke liye bhartiya team kaa abhinn ang hai
 He had a spasm problem in his shoulder at that time
 vah bhartiya team or mumbai indiens donon kaa ek abhinn ang hai or vishwa cap ko dekhte hue unhen ballebaaji se dur hi rakhana behatar samajha gaya
 However, the injury to Bumrah once again has raised concerns for Indian cricket lovers
 diggaj khilaadi cyna nehwal ko pehle daur main bai mila lekin pi kashyap ne rashtramandal khelon kii vyakgit badminton spardhaa main bharat ko shandaar shuruuaat dilaai
 Fifth seed Kashyap, who beat England's Rajiv Ouseph in the mixed team event, defeated Falk Island's Michael Sterve Brownley 21-8 21-9 in just 11 minutes in the first round of the men's singles
 mishrit yugal sanaave thomas or aparnaa baalan sirf 17 minute main varf glen or teng hi tiyaan kii jodi ko 21-9, 21-13 se haraaya
 Rupesh Kumar and Ashwini Ponnappa, on the other hand, also defeated Seashells' Steve Hensley and Camley Ellison 21-8, 21-14
 kashyap ne match ke baad kaha, ‘yah aasaan match tha
 i was comfortable in the match and i also played slow shots to get the right rhythm
 ’ unhone kaha, ‘meraa dhyaan abhi padak par nahin he
 The quarter-finals will be tough as i have to face Mohammad Hafiz Hashim of Malaysia
 agar main use haraa detaa hum to rajeev oseph se kheloongaa jise maine team spardhaa main haraaya tha
 Kashyap said, "I want to face Li Chong Wei by reaching the finals to show him how much better i can play
" ’ One of the most popular smartphones of Xiaomi is the sale of Redmi Note 4 today
 dopaher 12 baje se company kii aadhikarik website Mi
 com and Flipkart's website
 isaki shuruaati keemat xxrep 4 9 rupee he or ise bharat main janvari main launch kiya gaya tha
 According to the company's claim, it is one of Xiaomi's best-selling smartphones in India
 bhartiya bazaar main yah teen vairient main uplabdh he
 The first variant has 32GB memory with 2GB RAM which costs Rs 9,999
 duusare vairient main 3GB ram ke saath 32GB memory he jisaki keemat 10,999 rupee he jabaki 4GB ram or 64GB internal memory vairient kii keemat 12,999 rupee he
 These are its features that make it better than Redmi Note 3
 spikar kii badali jagahphone Redmi Note4 kii motaai 8
 The Note3's 8 is 4mm
 54mm thi
 The speaker has been placed in the bottom for better sound quality in the Note 4
 ise blike, gold or dark grey color verient main pesh kiya gaya he
 The battery of the phone is 4100 mah and has been developed with new technology to support it for longer
 kaisaa he phone kaa camersiogar camere kii baat kii jaae to Note4 ke rier main CMOS sensor vaala13 megapixl or frontmen 5 megapixl kaa camera he
 Rear camera f / 2
 0 aparchar, 77 degree wide angel lens or dual tone LED flash ke saath aayega vahiin front camera 85 degree wide angel lens ke saath aayega
 For connectivity features connectivity, it has 4G volte, wi-fi, Bluetooth, GPS, micro-usb
 phone sabhi divaais se knect ho jane vaala remote sensor feechar se las he
 If you have not secured your smartphone and computer, then it is possible that hackers can enter your phone and use it to fake it
 ek report ke mutabik apradhi kryptokaransi 'motero' ko mine karne ke liye kaaphi zyada processing power kii talash kar rahe hai
 For this, they are secretly using your smartphone and computer
 bloomberg kii ek report ke mutabik america, australia or britain main aisa maamla saamne aayaa he
 According to the report, hackers put a malicious software in your web browser and through this they are able to mine cryptocurrency using the processing power of your computer and smartphone
 pichley hafte ek security research ne 4 hajaar se bhi zyada citon main is malisius software kaa pataa lagaaya tha
 This included sites in the US court system, Australia and the UK
 yah hekking un system main hui he, jotext tu spichexes script 'browsealoud' kaa istemaal kar rahe hai
 US court spokesman David Sellers said the problem was resolved within hours of the hacking being detected
 havers 'motero' kryptokaransi ko mine karne ke liye online hijacing ke maamle main kaaphi aage bad rahe hai
 So it is important that you keep your smartphone and computer secure
 taaki aap aise kisi bhi khatre se surakshit rahen
 Difficult to detect 'monero' Like bitcoin, 'monero' is also a digital currency
 is karansi ke bare main kaha jaataa he ki athurities ke liye ise tres kar paanaa kaaphi mushkil hota he
 The value of the currency has increased more than 20 times since last year
 coinmarketcap dot com ke mutabik is kryptokaransi kii market vailu 4
 Is over 3 billion dollars
 amuman aisa dekha jaataa he ki diet par rahane vaale log ghi, tel se to duuri bana hi lete hai, apni thali ko bhi boring bana dete hai
 Neither much salt nor sugar
 keval sailad or zeus
 In this affair, they are unable to follow their fitness plan for many days
 lekin hamaara maananaa he ki ek healdi diet swaadisht bhi ho saktaa he
 Delicious food can be prepared with the help of these ingredients: - paalak, methi or anya hari patteydaar subjiyon main paryaapt maatra main aayran paaya jaataa he, aapkaa sharir inhen achche se pachaa saken isliye in subjiyon main aalu or tamaato bhi daal den, isse subjiyan swaadisht banengi
 - Sesame seeds are very beneficial for health, mixed in salad or bread or sprinkle a handful of sesame on the food, this will increase the taste of the food
 - patta gobhi antioxident, vitamins, folate or fibre se bharpoor hone ke saath aayran ke pramukh strot bhi hote hai, iskaa seven sabji yaa salad ke rup main kiya ja saktaa he
 It corrects iron deficiency
 googletag
 cmd
 push(function() { googletag
 display ('adslotnativevideo'); }); - sookhe adu rojaanaa aapke sharir ke liye aavashyak nau pratishat aayran kii jarurat ko puraa karte hai, isliye iskaa seven jarur karen
 - Like other nuts, raisins are rich in iron, it can be eaten by adding a handful of curd, salad, oatmeal
 - aloobookhaara kaa zeus aayran kaa mahatvapurn strot he, isamen maujuud vitamin si aapako sharir ko aasaani se aayran ko avashoshit karne main madad karti he
 So take a glass of potato Bukhara juice with food
 - sookhe khubaani aayran or anya poshak tatwon ke badhiya strot hote hai, inhen kaccha yaa pakaakar, dibbaband main yaa sookhe ke rup main uplabdh hone par bhi khaaya ja saktaa he, iskaa seven sharir ke liye behad laabhadaayak hota he
 - Sun-dried tomatoes are also rich in iron, you can eat it by adding omelette, pasta, sandwiches or salad
 calcium or aayran hamaare sharir kii haddiyon ko majboot banaae rakhane or sharir main khun kii kami ko rokane main madadgaar hote hai
 This is the best way to overcome all kinds of stress, whether it is of office or love life
 
 
 tippaniyanlong dystence friendship: bina tikat kharide, milon dur rahane vaale doston se yun mitaaen 'faasla''90 bourn kid' hai aap, to hafte main zarur karen ye kaam
 
 
 But we believe that a healthy diet can also be tasty
 in indigradients kii madad se swaadisht bhojan taiyaar kiya kiya ja saktaa he: Spinach, fenugreek and other green leafy vegetables contain sufficient amount of iron, so that your body can digest them properly, so add potatoes and tomatoes to these vegetables, this will make the vegetables tasty
 - til swasthya ke liye bahut laabhadaayak hote hai, salad yaa roti main milakar yaa bhojan par ek mutthi til chhidak len, isse bhojan kaa swaad bad jayega
 - Cabbage is rich in antioxidants, vitamins, folate and fiber and is also a major source of iron, it can be consumed as a vegetable or salad
 yah aayran kii kami ko dur karata he
 - Dried peaches meet the nine percent iron required for your body daily, so definitely consume it
 - anya mewan kii tarah kishmish aayran se bharpoor hota he, ise dahi, salad, dalia main mutthi bhar daalkar khaaya ja saktaa he
 Juice of plum is an important source of iron, the vitamin c in it helps the body to absorb iron easily
 isliye khaane ke saath ek gilaas aalu bukhaara zeus kaa seven karen
 - Dried apricots are excellent sources of iron and other nutrients, they can be eaten raw or cooked, canned or even when available as dried, its intake is very beneficial for the body
 - dhoop main sukhaae gaye tamaato bhi aayran se bharpoor hote hai, aap ise omelet, pasta, sandwich yaa salad main daalkar kha sakate hai
 Calcium and iron are helpful in keeping our body bones strong and preventing blood loss in the body
 daftar kaa ho yaa lav life kaa, har tarah ke stress ko dur karne kaa best tarika he ye
 
 
 Comments Long Distance Friendship: Without buying tickets, erase 'distance' '90 Born Kid' from friends living miles away, so do this job in a week
 
 
 - paalak, methi or anya hari patteydaar subjiyon main paryaapt maatra main aayran paaya jaataa he, aapkaa sharir inhen achche se pachaa saken isliye in subjiyon main aalu or tamaato bhi daal den, isse subjiyan swaadisht banengi
 - Sesame seeds are very beneficial for health, mixed in salad or bread or sprinkle a handful of sesame on the food, this will increase the taste of the food
 - patta gobhi antioxident, vitamins, folate or fibre se bharpoor hone ke saath aayran ke pramukh strot bhi hote hai, iskaa seven sabji yaa salad ke rup main kiya ja saktaa he
 It corrects iron deficiency
 - sookhe adu rojaanaa aapke sharir ke liye aavashyak nau pratishat aayran kii jarurat ko puraa karte hai, isliye iskaa seven jarur karen
 - Like other nuts, raisins are rich in iron, it can be eaten by adding a handful of curd, salad, oatmeal
 - aloobookhaara kaa zeus aayran kaa mahatvapurn strot he, isamen maujuud vitamin si aapako sharir ko aasaani se aayran ko avashoshit karne main madad karti he
 So take a glass of potato Bukhara juice with food
 - sookhe khubaani aayran or anya poshak tatwon ke badhiya strot hote hai, inhen kaccha yaa pakaakar, dibbaband main yaa sookhe ke rup main uplabdh hone par bhi khaaya ja saktaa he, iskaa seven sharir ke liye behad laabhadaayak hota he
 - Sun-dried tomatoes are also rich in iron, you can eat it by adding omelette, pasta, sandwiches or salad
 calcium or aayran hamaare sharir kii haddiyon ko majboot banaae rakhane or sharir main khun kii kami ko rokane main madadgaar hote hai
 This is the best way to overcome all kinds of stress, whether it is of office or love life
 
 
 tippaniyanlong dystence friendship: bina tikat kharide, milon dur rahane vaale doston se yun mitaaen 'faasla''90 bourn kid' hai aap, to hafte main zarur karen ye kaam
 
 
 - Cabbage is rich in antioxidants, vitamins, folate and fiber and is also a major source of iron, it can be consumed as a vegetable or salad
 yah aayran kii kami ko dur karata he
 - Dried peaches meet the nine percent iron required for your body daily, so definitely consume it
 - anya mewan kii tarah kishmish aayran se bharpoor hota he, ise dahi, salad, dalia main mutthi bhar daalkar khaaya ja saktaa he
 Juice of plum is an important source of iron, the vitamin c in it helps the body to absorb iron easily
 isliye khaane ke saath ek gilaas aalu bukhaara zeus kaa seven karen
 - Dried apricots are excellent sources of iron and other nutrients, they can be eaten raw or cooked, canned or even when available as dried, its intake is very beneficial for the body
 - dhoop main sukhaae gaye tamaato bhi aayran se bharpoor hote hai, aap ise omelet, pasta, sandwich yaa salad main daalkar kha sakate hai
 Calcium and iron are helpful in keeping our body bones strong and preventing blood loss in the body
 daftar kaa ho yaa lav life kaa, har tarah ke stress ko dur karne kaa best tarika he ye
 
 
 Comments Long Distance Friendship: Without buying tickets, erase 'distance' '90 Born Kid' from friends living miles away, so do this job in a week
 
 
 - sookhe adu rojaanaa aapke sharir ke liye aavashyak nau pratishat aayran kii jarurat ko puraa karte hai, isliye iskaa seven jarur karen
 - Like other nuts, raisins are rich in iron, it can be eaten by adding a handful of curd, salad, oatmeal
 - aloobookhaara kaa zeus aayran kaa mahatvapurn strot he, isamen maujuud vitamin si aapako sharir ko aasaani se aayran ko avashoshit karne main madad karti he
 So take a glass of potato Bukhara juice with food
 - sookhe khubaani aayran or anya poshak tatwon ke badhiya strot hote hai, inhen kaccha yaa pakaakar, dibbaband main yaa sookhe ke rup main uplabdh hone par bhi khaaya ja saktaa he, iskaa seven sharir ke liye behad laabhadaayak hota he
 - Sun-dried tomatoes are also rich in iron, you can eat it by adding omelette, pasta, sandwiches or salad
 calcium or aayran hamaare sharir kii haddiyon ko majboot banaae rakhane or sharir main khun kii kami ko rokane main madadgaar hote hai
 This is the best way to overcome all kinds of stress, whether it is of office or love life
 
 
 tippaniyanlong dystence friendship: bina tikat kharide, milon dur rahane vaale doston se yun mitaaen 'faasla''90 bourn kid' hai aap, to hafte main zarur karen ye kaam
 
 
 - Like other nuts, raisins are rich in iron, it can be eaten by adding a handful of curd, salad, oatmeal
 - aloobookhaara kaa zeus aayran kaa mahatvapurn strot he, isamen maujuud vitamin si aapako sharir ko aasaani se aayran ko avashoshit karne main madad karti he
 So take a glass of potato Bukhara juice with food
 - sookhe khubaani aayran or anya poshak tatwon ke badhiya strot hote hai, inhen kaccha yaa pakaakar, dibbaband main yaa sookhe ke rup main uplabdh hone par bhi khaaya ja saktaa he, iskaa seven sharir ke liye behad laabhadaayak hota he
 - Sun-dried tomatoes are also rich in iron, you can eat it by adding omelette, pasta, sandwiches or salad
 calcium or aayran hamaare sharir kii haddiyon ko majboot banaae rakhane or sharir main khun kii kami ko rokane main madadgaar hote hai
 This is the best way to overcome all kinds of stress, whether it is of office or love life
 
 
 tippaniyanlong dystence friendship: bina tikat kharide, milon dur rahane vaale doston se yun mitaaen 'faasla''90 bourn kid' hai aap, to hafte main zarur karen ye kaam
 
 
 Juice of plum is an important source of iron, the vitamin c in it helps the body to absorb iron easily
 isliye khaane ke saath ek gilaas aalu bukhaara zeus kaa seven karen
 - Dried apricots are excellent sources of iron and other nutrients, they can be eaten raw or cooked, canned or even when available as dried, its intake is very beneficial for the body
 - dhoop main sukhaae gaye tamaato bhi aayran se bharpoor hote hai, aap ise omelet, pasta, sandwich yaa salad main daalkar kha sakate hai
 Calcium and iron are helpful in keeping our body bones strong and preventing blood loss in the body
 daftar kaa ho yaa lav life kaa, har tarah ke stress ko dur karne kaa best tarika he ye
 
 
 Comments Long Distance Friendship: Without buying tickets, erase 'distance' '90 Born Kid' from friends living miles away, so do this job in a week
 
 
 - sookhe khubaani aayran or anya poshak tatwon ke badhiya strot hote hai, inhen kaccha yaa pakaakar, dibbaband main yaa sookhe ke rup main uplabdh hone par bhi khaaya ja saktaa he, iskaa seven sharir ke liye behad laabhadaayak hota he
 - Sun-dried tomatoes are also rich in iron, you can eat it by adding omelette, pasta, sandwiches or salad
 calcium or aayran hamaare sharir kii haddiyon ko majboot banaae rakhane or sharir main khun kii kami ko rokane main madadgaar hote hai
 This is the best way to overcome all kinds of stress, whether it is of office or love life
 
 
 tippaniyanlong dystence friendship: bina tikat kharide, milon dur rahane vaale doston se yun mitaaen 'faasla''90 bourn kid' hai aap, to hafte main zarur karen ye kaam
 
 
 - Sun-dried tomatoes are also rich in iron, you can eat it by adding omelette, pasta, sandwiches or salad
 calcium or aayran hamaare sharir kii haddiyon ko majboot banaae rakhane or sharir main khun kii kami ko rokane main madadgaar hote hai
 This is the best way to overcome all kinds of stress, whether it is of office or love life
 
 
 tippaniyanlong dystence friendship: bina tikat kharide, milon dur rahane vaale doston se yun mitaaen 'faasla''90 bourn kid' hai aap, to hafte main zarur karen ye kaam
 
 
 Calcium and iron are helpful in keeping our body bones strong and preventing blood loss in the body
 daftar kaa ho yaa lav life kaa, har tarah ke stress ko dur karne kaa best tarika he ye
 
 
 Comments Long Distance Friendship: Without buying tickets, erase 'distance' '90 Born Kid' from friends living miles away, so do this job in a week
 
 
 daftar kaa ho yaa lav life kaa, har tarah ke stress ko dur karne kaa best tarika he ye
 
 
 Comments Long Distance Friendship: Without buying tickets, erase 'distance' '90 Born Kid' from friends living miles away, so do this job in a week
 
 
 long dystence friendship: bina tikat kharide, milon dur rahane vaale doston se yun mitaaen 'faasla''90 bourn kid' hai aap, to hafte main zarur karen ye kaam
 
 
 If you are a '90 Born Kid', then definitely do this work in a week
 
 
 puure desh ko andolit kar dene vaala dilli gangrape cese ab fast trek court ko saunp diya gaya he
 This case is to be heard daily from January 21
 maamle ke mukhya aaropee ram singh ne di supreme court main yachika daakhil kar kaha he ki fere trial ke liye kisi or shahar main ho sunwaayee kii jaae
 On the other hand, another accused Vinay Sharma has accused him of beating her in Tihar
 court ne is bare main 21 janvari tak tihaad prashasan se jawaab maanga he
 The accused, who initially confessed to their crime in the gangrape case, are now turning their back
 aise aaropee ab court ko bataa rahe hai ki unhone dabaav main bayaan diya tha
 Significantly, the Delhi Police has already filed a charge sheet in the Delhi gang rape case
 police farvari main supplementry chargeshit daakhil karegi
 Police is collecting more forensic evidence in this case
 mulajimon ke daaton ke sample bhi liye gaye hai
 Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas are getting congratulatory messages and wishes from many fans and celebs from all over the world on their stay
 priyanka ke roka seremani kaa hissaa baniin unki kagin bahan pariniti chopra ne bhipriyanka or nikke liye ek imotional post likhakar badhai di he
 Parineeti has shared her childhood memories spent with Priyanka in her post
 iske alaava pariniti ne apane massej main prinyaka aurnikke rishte kii gaharaai ko bhi bayaan kiya he
 Parineeti has written, 'today i felt the magic and the story Ferritelli
 mimi didi jab ham bachche the to mujhe yaad hai main ghar-ghar khelaa karti thi
 We used to be shy brides, we used to have children of falsehood and we used to serve tea to our husbands
 ajeeb he lekin, aisa isliye kyonki hamen hameshaa pyaar ke jaadu par bharosa tha or ummid thi ki hamen ek din apane liye parfect insaan milegaa
 But today nothing is a lie
 main unke liye isse parfect insaan ke bare nahin soch sakati
 i said in the morning that there are two ways to judge a human being
 wo do tareeke hai-ek to unke saath travel karo or doosraa unke saath khaaie
 i have done both these works with Nick and so i know that you are perfect for him
 unhen aap pyaar dena kyonki wo aapako paaglon kii tarah pyaar karti hai
 Protect them because they are strong from outside but soft from inside
 main aap donon ko bahut pyaar karti hum or shubhakamanaayen detii hum
 
 
 Happy rookie and upcoming wedding too
 
 
 'today i witnessed magic and a fairytale 
 
 
 When we were kids, mimi didi and i used to play "ghar ghar"
 We would pretend to be shy brides, have imaginary children, and serve tea to our husbands! 🙈🙈 cheesy, but its because we always believed in the magic of love and hoped we would both find that perfect man for us one day!! Today there was no pretending
 i cant think of a more a perfect man for her
 Like i said this morning, there are two ways of judging a human being
 One - travel with them, and two, eat with them
 Nick, i have done both with you
 And so i know you're perfect for her !! Love her, because she loves you like mad! Protect her, because shes strong, but a soft soul inside
 i love you both and wish you all the happiness forever xxrep 5 ! HAPPY ROKA AND FUTURE WEDDING!! 💍💑@priyankachopra @nickjonasa post shared byparineeti Chopra(@parineetichopra) onaug 18, 2018 at 8:00am pdtbawa den jald hi priyanka chopra nik jonas ke saath shaadi rachaane vaali hai
 According to sources, Priyanka may get married in October this year
 ye shaadi america main hogi yaa bharat main filhaal is par suspence bana hua he
 Priyanka had a secret engagement with Nick on her birthday this year
 unakisgaiki anguthi kii charchaa se hi ye maaloom padaa tha ki priyanka ne boyfriend nik sang apane rishte ko ek kadam aage badha liya hamethken
 
 With all my heart and soul
 
 a post shared bypriyanka Chopra(@priyankachopra) onaug 18, 2018 at 2:45am PDT
 The Election Commission has postponed the disbursement of the relief fund till the settlement of the Assembly elections in Punjab on January 30
 mukhya chunaav adhikari kusumjit sindhu ne bataaya ki bathinda jile main punjab ke mukhyamantri kii tasviir vaale rashan card or anya card baante jane kii khabaren milane par uske tatkaal roke jane ke aadesh bhi jari kiye gaye
 Sindhu said some sewing machines allegedly being distributed at Chamkaur Sahib were also captured
 unhone bataaya ki punjab main 11 peethasin adhikariyon ko bhi nijee or prashasnic aadhaar par badla gaya
 The official said that the number of unaccounted cash seized in the state continues
 unhone kaha, ‘pradesh kii sthatiki nigaraanee team puri tarah mustaid he
 With the implementation of the Model Election Code from December 24, cash amount of up to five crore has been seized out of which Rs 47 lakh was seized today
 ’ Jagmeet Singh of Indian origin will contest the Prime Minister's post in Canada
 unhone 2019 main hone vaale fedral chunaavon ke liye daavedaari pesh kii he
 He is the first Sikh to contest for the post of Prime Minister of Canada
 bataaya ja rahaa he ki neshnal democratic party (andipi) ke sadsy president jagamit singh ke netritv main chunaavon main utrenge
 Belongs to Punjab 
 
 canada ke ontario main janme jagamit singh kaa taalluk punjab se bhi he
 His mother Harmeet Kaur is from Gudhani Khurd in Ludhiana district while father Jagataran Singh comes from Barnala district in Punjab
 70 ke dashak main unke mata-pita canada aakar based the
 Jagmeet's grandfather Seva Singh Singariwala fought the British during the freedom struggle
 aaj bhi unke naam barnaala ke thikrivaala gaanv main shahid seva singh chowk he
 Even the villagers have preserved the mansion of Seva Sing Tikrivala even today
 bataaya jaataa he ki yah pataa lagane par jagamit singh bharat aana chaahate the, lekin unhen tatkaaleen upie sarkaar ne vija nahin diya tha
 Studied in Canada only
 
 
 jagamit singh peshey se vakil hai
 He entered Canadian politics in 2011
 unki shuruuaati padhai canada ke ontario ke detroit country de skool se hui
 He then earned a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Western Ontario
 phir unhone york uniwarsity se lau kii padhai kii
 After this, Jagmeet Singh entered politics after practicing for a few years as a criminal lawyer
 vah saal 2013 main saansad bane the
 He resigned from his post and was elected to the post of NDP President in May 2017 and was also elected
 ab unhone canada ke pradhanmantri pad kii daavedaari par daanv lagaaya he
 In Bihar, for the second consecutive day, millions of primary school children went hungry
 shikshak sangh ne mid de mile yojana se apni jimmedaari khinch lee he, lihaaja kareeb 5 hajaar skulon main bacchon ko dopaher kaa khaanaa nahin parosa gaya or shuukravaar se shuru hue bihar vidhansabha satr main sarkaar ne maare gaye bacchon ko shradhanjali tak nahin di
 In Bihar, there is a ruckus of the death of 23 children after eating a mid-day meal on the one hand, and on the other hand, the government's indifference to thousands of millions of children studying in schools is once again being exposed
 shuukravaar ko bhi rajya ke lakhon bacchon ko mid de mile mila hi nahin
 a similar day happened on Thursday
 bihar ke kareeb 70 hajaar skulon ke kareeb 3 lakh shikshakon ne mid de mile yojana se apane haath khinch liye hai
 In fact, on July 25, the Bihar Primary School Teacher Association has decided that they will not bear the responsibility of mid-day meal
 ab skool ke bachche ghar se tiffin lekar skool jane par majaboor hai
 Apparently, there was no other arrangement for giving food to the children and the children did not get food
 praathmik shikshak sangh ne ye faisla liya he ki jin skulon main vidhyalay samiti ke tahat mid de mile banaaya jaataa he, unamem shikshak hissaa nahin lenge
 The union alleges that teachers are being tortured since the accident in Chapra
 is bich bihar ke shiksha vibhaag ne shikshakon se apil kii he ki wo mid de mile se apane aap ko alag na karen
 Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has also said that the mid-day meal scheme should be further improved
 haalanki bihar ke hi katihaar jile main shikshak sangh ke aahvaan par skulon main bacchon ko mid de mile parosa ja rahaa he
 The regional secretary of the teachers union decided not to go against the government and is putting his own union in the dock
 bhale hi katihaar main schuli chaatro ko raahat he lekin mid de mile kaa sansanikhej maamla, rajya sarkaar kii kirakiri or praathmik shikshak sangh ke faisle ke bich rajya ke duusare schuli chaatr to pis hi rahe hai
 Shahrukh Khan's fans are now waiting for his next film Fan
 khabaron kii maane, to fain kii relies date ab bakreed tak badha di gai he
 Fan was to be released on August 14
 fain film ke diarector manish sharma or produser aditya chopra film ke liye special VFX kaa prayog karnaa chaah rahe hai, jisaki vajah se relies date aage badha di gai he
 According to an English newspaper news, Aditya Chopra, Shah Rukh Khan and director Manish Sharma want the film to be released on September 23 on the occasion of Bakrid
 haalanki is khabar kii pushti abhi yashraj binar yaa shahrukh kii taraf se nahin kii gai he
 Salman Khan's film Bajrangi Bhaijaan will also be released on eid-ul-fitr
 yani ye tay maniye ki bollywood ke do khan apni-apni film ke liye id ko idi lene ke liye taiyaar hai
 a student has created a unique bicycle, which looks exactly like a treadmill, but jogging can be enjoyed along with walking in the market through this unique bicycle
 jab bhi chaatr is cycle ko lekar sadak par nikalataa he to sabhi log is nai cycle ko dekhakar hairaan rah jate hai
 The son of Sukhbir Singh, resident of Nangla village in Meerut, Vishant Malik is a student of class X
 bachapan se hi use mashiinon ke saath khelnaa acha lagata tha or umr ke saath-saath uskaa yah shauk bhi badhata chalaa gaya
 One day when he saw people jogging on the treadmill machine in the gym, then the idea of making a jogging cycle came to his mind
 phir kya tha usne apane idia ko apane parivaaravaalon ke saath share kiya
 At first the family people liked him, but later when he insisted to make a bicycle, the family started supporting him
 pehle to vishanth ne tres paper par cycle kaa dizin taiyaar kiya or jogging cycle banane kaa saamaan ikaitha kar cycle taiyaar kerani shuru kar di
 After a month's hard work, when the bicycle was ready, there was no place for her happiness
 jab bhi vishanth is cycle ko lekar baahar nikalataa he to sab log is anokhi cycle ko dekh hairaan hote hai
 People also aspire to run this cycle once
 is cycle kii sabase khaas baat yah he ki isamen na to koi pedal he or na hi yah cycle aam cykilon kii tarah chalati he
 Just by standing and walking on this bicycle, this cycle also runs
 ghar main khadi rahane par treadmill kaa kaam karti he
 Now the family members of Vishant also jog in the morning and evening on this cycle and Vishant does all his important work through this cycle
 agar vishanth kii jogging cycle kii baat karen to ise taiyaar karne main 8 hajaar rupee ke kareeb kharch hue hai
 The price of the treadmill found in the market starts from 25 thousand
 vishanth ne philhal apni cycle kaa pehla model taiyaar kiya he agar uske paas is cycle ke banane ke order aate hai to vah apni is anokhi cycle jaisi or cycle banane karne ko taiyaar he
 He has tweeted that the GST rate was reduced from 28 to 18 percent due to the Gujarat election
 karnataka chunaav ke kaaran petrol - dijal kii keemten sthir hai
 Therefore, people are benefiting from the frequent elections
 (input bhashaa se) After opening at the record level on the third day of this trading week, the stock market closing has also taken place at a record level
 buudhvaar ko nifti jahaan 60
 11,450 with an increase of 55 points
 00 ke str par band hone main kaamyaab hua he
 The Nifty has closed at a new record level
 vahiin, sensex kii baat karen to isane bhi record str kaa aankada chuaa he
 SENSEX 221 on Wednesday
 76 ankon kii badhottaree ke saath 37,887
 Managed to close at level 56
 kaarobaar khatmahone ke dauraan oengisi, reliance, sipla or infratel ke share top giner main shaamil rahe
 3 in ONGC shares
 13 fisadi kii badhat dekhne ko mili he
 Apart from this, the shares of Reliance Industries Ltd
 have also performed much better
 company ke share 3
 Closed with a gain of 09 per cent
 duusari taraf, lupin, maaruti or bipisiel samet anya kai companiyon ke share nifti-50 par laal nishaan ke neeche band hue
 5 in Lupine's shares
 13 fisadi kii giravat dekhne ko mili
 On the third day of this trading week, the stock market started strong
 buudhvaar ko vaishvik bazaar se mili majboot sanketon ke boote gharelu bazaar majboot hua
 On Wednesday, Sensex managed to start trading at 37,756 levels with a gain of 90 points
 vahiin, nifti kii baat karen to isane 23 ankon kii badhat ke saath 11,412 ke str par apane kaarobaar kii shuruyaat kii he
 Have you ever vowed that anything happens now, stay away from Facebook and there is not a week of swearing that you open your Facebook profile again
 agar in donon sawaalon ke jawaab 'haa' main hai to phir ek baat tay he ki aap akele nahin hai
 There are a large number of people worldwide who break such vows to leave Facebook
 cornell vishvavidhyalay ke researchrs ne study main paaya ki chaar aisi vajahen hai jinaki vajah se fasebuk ko haath na lagane kii kasam baar-baar tut jaati he
 Research head Eric Bommer said, 'the first reason is the alleged addiction, who think that they have become addicted to Facebook or are involved in Facebook habit, then they would swear not to use Facebook much and return to it
 Huh
 'study main shamilek shaks ne aadat ke is pahalu ko saaf karte hue kaha, 'fasebuk istemaal nahin karne ke faisle kii shuruyaat ke 10 dinon main jab bhi main internet kholta tha, naa chaahate hue bhi main waapas is site par pahunch jaataa tha
 'this research is done by Holland's agency' Just ', which involved 5 thousand people
 survey kaa data 99daysoffreedom
 com work made available, which urged participants to stay away from Facebook for 99 days
 input: IANS The capital Delhi and adjoining areas have been receiving heavy rains since early Wednesday
 baari barish ke chalate jagah−jagah barish sadakon par pani bhar gaya he or trephic behad dhimaa ho gaya he
 The comments trephic police ke mutabik mahrauli−badarpur road or saidulabad gaanv main kaaphi pani jamaa ho gaya he
 At the same time, there is a lot of water in Motibagh area, due to which many vehicles have been submerged in water
 lagaataar ho rahi barish ke kaaran yamuna kaa jalastr bhi khatre ke nishaan ke kareeb pahunch gaya he
 Now the water level of Yamuna 204
 70 meter he, jo khatre ke nishaan se 13 centimetre dur he
 According to the traffic police, a lot of water has accumulated in mehrauli-badarpur Road and Saidulabad village
 vahiin motibagh ilaake main bhi kaaphi pani bhar gaya he, jisaki vajah se kai gaadiyaan pani main dub gai hai
 Yamuna's water level has also reached close to the danger mark due to continuous rains
 abhi yamuna kaa jalastr 204
 70 meters, which is 13 cm from the danger mark
 lagaataar ho rahi barish ke kaaran yamuna kaa jalastr bhi khatre ke nishaan ke kareeb pahunch gaya he
 Now the water level of Yamuna 204
 70 meter he, jo khatre ke nishaan se 13 centimetre dur he
 Countrywide protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act: Hundreds of protesters detained in capital Delhi, dozens of metro stations closed in Delhi, protests are taking place across the country against the Mobile Services Infrastructure Amendment Act
 rajdhani dilli main bhi pradarshan lagaataar badhata ja rahaa he, kai hisson main pradarshnakariyon ko hiraasat main bhi liya gaya he
 The protesters who have been detained in Delhi are being taken to temporary jails
 yahaan dilli police inkaa dhyaan bhi rakh rahi he or naashtaa karne ke liye kele baant rahi he
 The protesters were taken into custody and brought to the Surajmal Stadium in Delhi, where there are thousands of protesters
 is dauraan dilli police ke javaanon ne hiraasat main maujuud pradarshnakariyon ko rifreshment die
 Delhi: Police personnel offered refreshments at Surajmal stadium to protesters who were detained
 (source: Delhi Police) # citizenshipamendmentactpic
 twitter
 com / 5g890ziten— ANI (@ani)december 19, 2019gauratlab he ki beete dinon jab dilli ke jamiya ilaake main dilli police ne chaatro par lathicharge or aansu gas ke gole chode the tab police kii kaaphi aalochana bhi hui thi
 Apart from this, there was a clash between Delhi Police and protesters in Seelampur area
 yahaan kuch pradarshnakariyon ne pulicekarmiyon par patharbaji kii thi
 Protests in several areas in Delhi: There were protests in several areas including Lal Qila, Mandi House against the Citizenship Amendment Act in Delhi
 virodh pradarshan ke kaaran dilli ke kuch ilaakon main dhara 144 bhi lagaai gai thi, haalanki iske baavjood log sadakon par utre the
 This is why hundreds of people have been detained
 dilli menyogendra yadav, congress netaa sandip dikshit, umr khalid sametakai anya netaaon ko hiraasat main liya gaya he
 At present, 19 metro stations are closed in the capital and there is a ban on movement of people
 saath hi dilli ke kuch hisson main mobile seva par roak laga di gai he, isamen mobile internet, SMS or colling par roak lagaai gai he
 The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has begun to clamp down on separatist and Hurriyat leaders
 NIA ne inako poochtacha ke liye ek baar phir se dilli bulaayaa he
 The separatists and Hurriyat leaders who have been called to Delhi for questioning include Altaf Funtush, Bitta Karate, Ghazi Javed Baba, Naeem Khan, Mehrajuddin and Ayaz Akbar
 inase pehle bhi dilli sthit NIA mukhyalay main poochtacha kii ja chuki he
 At the same time, three leaders of the tehreek-e-hurriyat party of separatist Syed Ali Shah Geelani were arrested by the NIA team in Srinagar earlier
 giraftaar kiye gaye hurriyat netaaon main gilaani kaa piaaro ayaaj akbar, damaad altaaf funtoosh or mehrazdin kalaval shaamil hai
 NI raided the houses of these three separatist leaders this month
 taharik-e-hurriyat ne giraftaar kii pushti kii he, haalanki gilaani ke karibiyon kii giraftaar kaa kaaran nahin bataaya gaya he
 It may be known that Aaj Tak / India Today had exposed Pakistani funding for stone pelting and unrest in Kashmir by conducting a sting operation
 isamen pehali baar camere par algaavvaadi netaa pakistan se paise lekar ghati main maahaul kharaab karne kii baat kaboolte dikhe the
 After this, the Central Government handed over its investigation to the NIA
 is hafte box offis par relies ho rahi filmon main ek he 'iraadaa'
 Directed by Aparna Singh, the film stars Naseeruddin Shah, Arshad Warsi, Divya Dutta, Sagarika Ghatge, Sharad Kelkar and Diwakar Kumar in pivotal roles
 'iraadaa' ke nirmaataa phalguni patel or prince soni hai
 Both the producer and the director of this film are making their film debut with 'aadhaar'
 ye film ek eco-thriller he yani vaataavaran ko madde najar rakhte hue kahani ko thriller kaa jama pahanaaya gaya he
 The story of 'yaadhaa' takes place in Bhatinda where retired army officer Parabjit Singh (naseeruddin Shah) lives with his daughter Riya (romana Molla) and is preparing him for the CDS exam
 lekin ek din use pataa chalata he kii riya ko cancer he jisaki vajah is pradesh kaa pani, jo reverse boring kii vajah se yahaan ke pine ke pani ko dooshit kar rahaa he
 They learn that not only Riya but this disease has spread badly in this state and many people stand against it in the film
 lekin koun hai ye log or yah kaise is mushkil se nipatate hai or isse jude corporate jagat or raajnneeti kaa saamana kaise karte hai, yahi dekhne ke liye aapako ye film dekhni chahie
 This film entertains as well as makes you aware of issues such as reverse boring and its consequences
 saath hi main is film ke nirmaataa or nirdeshak kii tarif bhi karnaa chaahunga jo film jagat ke mayajaal main nahin fanse or unhone ek mudde par aadhaarit film banaai
 The good thing is that they have done it with complete honesty
 ab baat karte hai is film kii khaamiyon or khoobiyon kii
 First of all the shortcomings of this film, i felt weak writing before midnight, whether it was script or screenplay
 khaastaur par divakar or sagarika ghatge vaala trek
 His characters and scenes crumble before he sets foot
 darshak in kirdaaron se jud hi nahi pate or na hi unase sahanbhuti kar pate hai or isi bich divakar kaa kirdaar khatm bhi ho jaataa he
 In such a situation, the audience is unable to connect with the character
 iske alaava first half main kai seens hai jo charam par pahunchane se pehle hi cat jate he jisaki vajah se wo puraa drishy prabhaavaheen ho jaataa he
 At some places it seems that the writer and the director are in a hurry to speak without saying
 is sab ke alaava jahaan-jahaan film main special effect kaa istemaal hua he vahaan saaf pataa chalata he kii yahaan viefex kaa istemaal hua he
 i also feel that there was a need to simplify 'reverse boring' and the rest of the technical terms, so that those who do not know English can understand the whole process of reverse boring better
 ye thi is film kami khamiyaan or ab baat khoobiyon kii
 The comments is film kii sabase badi khubi he iskaa vishay jo film jagat ke liye to nayaa he hi saath hi ye darshakon ko ek nae khatre se saavdhaan karata he
 This film and its subject tries to attract the attention of both the system-government towards the danger of reverse boring and also suggests that the future can be frightening if it is not given due attention in time
 film kii duusari khubi hai arshad varsi jo enie officer arjuna mishra ke kirdaar main hai
 Arshad, on the strength of his acting, is also putting a light comedy on this serious subject and saving this film from being cumbersome
 lekin kamedi ke halke put ke baad bhi vah kahani yaa mudde se kahin nahin bhatke hai
 Naseer once again lives on in the film with his acting, his and Arshad's pairing of Ishqiya and Dedh Ishqiya are not as funny but their scenes are very impressive
 vahiin divya datta or sharad kelkar kaa bhi umdaa abhinay he
 Both of them have cast the negative characters of the film on the screen with great enthusiasm
 madhyatanr ke pehle ke aadhe hisse ke baad film kii likhaai or nirdesan donon main dhar najar aati he or film asardaar ho jaati he
 The cinematography of the film lends further support to the film's core and subject
 saath hi main yahaan ek or drishy kaa zikr karnaa chaahunga jisamen cancer ke marijon ko rail main le jate darshaya gaya he
 This scene makes your heart tremble
 iskaa filmakan kaabil-e tariff he
 So go and see this film, for its subject and its message
 meri taraf se ise teen stars
 The story of 'yaadhaa' takes place in Bhatinda where retired army officer Parabjit Singh (naseeruddin Shah) lives with his daughter Riya (romana Molla) and is preparing him for the CDS exam
 lekin ek din use pataa chalata he kii riya ko cancer he jisaki vajah is pradesh kaa pani, jo reverse boring kii vajah se yahaan ke pine ke pani ko dooshit kar rahaa he
 They learn that not only Riya but this disease has spread badly in this state and many people stand against it in the film
 lekin koun hai ye log or yah kaise is mushkil se nipatate hai or isse jude corporate jagat or raajnneeti kaa saamana kaise karte hai, yahi dekhne ke liye aapako ye film dekhni chahie
 This film entertains as well as makes you aware of issues such as reverse boring and its consequences
 saath hi main is film ke nirmaataa or nirdeshak kii tarif bhi karnaa chaahunga jo film jagat ke mayajaal main nahin fanse or unhone ek mudde par aadhaarit film banaai
 The good thing is that they have done it with complete honesty
 ab baat karte hai is film kii khaamiyon or khoobiyon kii
 First of all the shortcomings of this film, i felt weak writing before midnight, whether it was script or screenplay
 khaastaur par divakar or sagarika ghatge vaala trek
 His characters and scenes crumble before he sets foot
 darshak in kirdaaron se jud hi nahi pate or na hi unase sahanbhuti kar pate hai or isi bich divakar kaa kirdaar khatm bhi ho jaataa he
 In such a situation, the audience is unable to connect with the character
 iske alaava first half main kai seens hai jo charam par pahunchane se pehle hi cat jate he jisaki vajah se wo puraa drishy prabhaavaheen ho jaataa he
 At some places it seems that the writer and the director are in a hurry to speak without saying
 is sab ke alaava jahaan-jahaan film main special effect kaa istemaal hua he vahaan saaf pataa chalata he kii yahaan viefex kaa istemaal hua he
 i also feel that there was a need to simplify 'reverse boring' and the rest of the technical terms, so that those who do not know English can understand the whole process of reverse boring better
 ye thi is film kami khamiyaan or ab baat khoobiyon kii
 The comments is film kii sabase badi khubi he iskaa vishay jo film jagat ke liye to nayaa he hi saath hi ye darshakon ko ek nae khatre se saavdhaan karata he
 This film and its subject tries to attract the attention of both the system-government towards the danger of reverse boring and also suggests that the future can be frightening if it is not given due attention in time
 film kii duusari khubi hai arshad varsi jo enie officer arjuna mishra ke kirdaar main hai
 Arshad, on the strength of his acting, is also putting a light comedy on this serious subject and saving this film from being cumbersome
 lekin kamedi ke halke put ke baad bhi vah kahani yaa mudde se kahin nahin bhatke hai
 Naseer once again lives on in the film with his acting, his and Arshad's pairing of Ishqiya and Dedh Ishqiya are not as funny but their scenes are very impressive
 vahiin divya datta or sharad kelkar kaa bhi umdaa abhinay he
 Both of them have cast the negative characters of the film on the screen with great enthusiasm
 madhyatanr ke pehle ke aadhe hisse ke baad film kii likhaai or nirdesan donon main dhar najar aati he or film asardaar ho jaati he
 The cinematography of the film lends further support to the film's core and subject
 saath hi main yahaan ek or drishy kaa zikr karnaa chaahunga jisamen cancer ke marijon ko rail main le jate darshaya gaya he
 This scene makes your heart tremble
 iskaa filmakan kaabil-e tariff he
 So go and see this film, for its subject and its message
 meri taraf se ise teen stars
 This film entertains as well as makes you aware of issues such as reverse boring and its consequences
 saath hi main is film ke nirmaataa or nirdeshak kii tarif bhi karnaa chaahunga jo film jagat ke mayajaal main nahin fanse or unhone ek mudde par aadhaarit film banaai
 The good thing is that they have done it with complete honesty
 ab baat karte hai is film kii khaamiyon or khoobiyon kii
 First of all the shortcomings of this film, i felt weak writing before midnight, whether it was script or screenplay
 khaastaur par divakar or sagarika ghatge vaala trek
 His characters and scenes crumble before he sets foot
 darshak in kirdaaron se jud hi nahi pate or na hi unase sahanbhuti kar pate hai or isi bich divakar kaa kirdaar khatm bhi ho jaataa he
 In such a situation, the audience is unable to connect with the character
 iske alaava first half main kai seens hai jo charam par pahunchane se pehle hi cat jate he jisaki vajah se wo puraa drishy prabhaavaheen ho jaataa he
 At some places it seems that the writer and the director are in a hurry to speak without saying
 is sab ke alaava jahaan-jahaan film main special effect kaa istemaal hua he vahaan saaf pataa chalata he kii yahaan viefex kaa istemaal hua he
 i also feel that there was a need to simplify 'reverse boring' and the rest of the technical terms, so that those who do not know English can understand the whole process of reverse boring better
 ye thi is film kami khamiyaan or ab baat khoobiyon kii
 The comments is film kii sabase badi khubi he iskaa vishay jo film jagat ke liye to nayaa he hi saath hi ye darshakon ko ek nae khatre se saavdhaan karata he
 This film and its subject tries to attract the attention of both the system-government towards the danger of reverse boring and also suggests that the future can be frightening if it is not given due attention in time
 film kii duusari khubi hai arshad varsi jo enie officer arjuna mishra ke kirdaar main hai
 Arshad, on the strength of his acting, is also putting a light comedy on this serious subject and saving this film from being cumbersome
 lekin kamedi ke halke put ke baad bhi vah kahani yaa mudde se kahin nahin bhatke hai
 Naseer once again lives on in the film with his acting, his and Arshad's pairing of Ishqiya and Dedh Ishqiya are not as funny but their scenes are very impressive
 vahiin divya datta or sharad kelkar kaa bhi umdaa abhinay he
 Both of them have cast the negative characters of the film on the screen with great enthusiasm
 madhyatanr ke pehle ke aadhe hisse ke baad film kii likhaai or nirdesan donon main dhar najar aati he or film asardaar ho jaati he
 The cinematography of the film lends further support to the film's core and subject
 saath hi main yahaan ek or drishy kaa zikr karnaa chaahunga jisamen cancer ke marijon ko rail main le jate darshaya gaya he
 This scene makes your heart tremble
 iskaa filmakan kaabil-e tariff he
 So go and see this film, for its subject and its message
 meri taraf se ise teen stars
 First of all the shortcomings of this film, i felt weak writing before midnight, whether it was script or screenplay
 khaastaur par divakar or sagarika ghatge vaala trek
 His characters and scenes crumble before he sets foot
 darshak in kirdaaron se jud hi nahi pate or na hi unase sahanbhuti kar pate hai or isi bich divakar kaa kirdaar khatm bhi ho jaataa he
 In such a situation, the audience is unable to connect with the character
 iske alaava first half main kai seens hai jo charam par pahunchane se pehle hi cat jate he jisaki vajah se wo puraa drishy prabhaavaheen ho jaataa he
 At some places it seems that the writer and the director are in a hurry to speak without saying
 is sab ke alaava jahaan-jahaan film main special effect kaa istemaal hua he vahaan saaf pataa chalata he kii yahaan viefex kaa istemaal hua he
 i also feel that there was a need to simplify 'reverse boring' and the rest of the technical terms, so that those who do not know English can understand the whole process of reverse boring better
 ye thi is film kami khamiyaan or ab baat khoobiyon kii
 The comments is film kii sabase badi khubi he iskaa vishay jo film jagat ke liye to nayaa he hi saath hi ye darshakon ko ek nae khatre se saavdhaan karata he
 This film and its subject tries to attract the attention of both the system-government towards the danger of reverse boring and also suggests that the future can be frightening if it is not given due attention in time
 film kii duusari khubi hai arshad varsi jo enie officer arjuna mishra ke kirdaar main hai
 Arshad, on the strength of his acting, is also putting a light comedy on this serious subject and saving this film from being cumbersome
 lekin kamedi ke halke put ke baad bhi vah kahani yaa mudde se kahin nahin bhatke hai
 Naseer once again lives on in the film with his acting, his and Arshad's pairing of Ishqiya and Dedh Ishqiya are not as funny but their scenes are very impressive
 vahiin divya datta or sharad kelkar kaa bhi umdaa abhinay he
 Both of them have cast the negative characters of the film on the screen with great enthusiasm
 madhyatanr ke pehle ke aadhe hisse ke baad film kii likhaai or nirdesan donon main dhar najar aati he or film asardaar ho jaati he
 The cinematography of the film lends further support to the film's core and subject
 saath hi main yahaan ek or drishy kaa zikr karnaa chaahunga jisamen cancer ke marijon ko rail main le jate darshaya gaya he
 This scene makes your heart tremble
 iskaa filmakan kaabil-e tariff he
 So go and see this film, for its subject and its message
 meri taraf se ise teen stars
 The biggest feature of this film is its theme which is not only new to the film world, but it also warns the audience of a new danger
 ye film or iskaa vishay reverse boring jaise khatre kii ore system-sarkaar donon kaa dhyaan aakarshith karne kii koshish karti he or yah bhi bataati hai ki agar is taraf samay rahete dhyaan nahin diya gaya to bhavishya bhayaavah ho saktaa he
 The second feature of the film is Arshad Warsi as NIA officer Arjun Mishra
 arshad apane abhinay ke dam par badi khubsuurati se is sanjeeda vishay main bhi halkaa kamedi kaa tadakaa laga rahe hai or is film ko bojhil hone se bachaa rahe hai
 But even after a light comedy, he has not deviated from the story or the issue
 naseer ek baar phir apane bahtareen abhinay se film main jaan daalate hai, unki or arshad kii jodi 'ishkia' or 'dedh ishkiyaan' kii tarah mazaahia to nahin he par in donon ke seens behad prabhaavshaalee hai
 At the same time, Divya Dutta and Sharad Kelkar also have great acting
 in donon ne film ke negative kirdaaron ko khubasarati ke saath parde par utaara he
 After the first half of the mid-day, both the writing and the direction of the film has a sharp edge and the film becomes effective
 film kii cinemetography film ke marm or vishay ko or sahaara detii he
 Also, i would like to mention here another scene which depicts cancer patients being taken on the train
 ye seen aapkaa dil dahala detaa he
 Its filming is Kabil-e Tarif
 to jaaen or ye film zarur dekhe, iske vishay ke liye or iske sandesh ke liye
 i got it three stars
 vahiin divya datta or sharad kelkar kaa bhi umdaa abhinay he
 Both of them have cast the negative characters of the film on the screen with great enthusiasm
 madhyatanr ke pehle ke aadhe hisse ke baad film kii likhaai or nirdesan donon main dhar najar aati he or film asardaar ho jaati he
 The cinematography of the film lends further support to the film's core and subject
 saath hi main yahaan ek or drishy kaa zikr karnaa chaahunga jisamen cancer ke marijon ko rail main le jate darshaya gaya he
 This scene makes your heart tremble
 iskaa filmakan kaabil-e tariff he
 So go and see this film, for its subject and its message
 meri taraf se ise teen stars
 a former Border Security Force (BSF) commandant committed suicide by shooting himself with his licensed gun
 ve apane ghar main mrit avasthaa main paae gaye
 The incident is in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir
 jahambief ke purv commandent jai dev singhpane parivaar ke saath rahete the
 Last night, 75-year-old Jai Dev Singh committed suicide by shooting himself with his double barrel licensed gun at his residence
 police ke ek adhikari ne bataaya ki soochna milane ke baad police kii ek team ghatnasthal par pahunchi aurakhudakushi ke kaaran kaa patalgane ke liye jaanch kii ja rahi he
 His body has been taken to Kathua District Hospital for post-mortem
 police ke mutabik is sambandh main kathua thana main maamla darj kiya gaya he
 And the police has started investigating the case
 abhi tak khudakushi kii vajah saaf nahin ho pai he
 This video called 'it Can Wait' is going viral worldwide in a tremendous way
 ise dekhen or coment ke jariye rakhen apni raay
 
 
 Maybe you also want to say - it can wait
 kendriya grih rajyamantri kiren rigiju ne kaha ki aatankiyon kii funding, ghati main patharbaji or nakli noton ke vyapaar par notebandi kaa sidhaa asar padaa he
 He said that both the people trading stones in the valley from fake notes are desperate
 jabase pradhanmantri narendra modi ne 1000 or 500 ke note band kiye hai tab se nakli noton ke vyapaar main mandi aa gai he
 The comments rigiju ne kaha ki ghati main patharbaji ekadam band he
 The Minister of State for Home said these things during the Question Hour, although when he was speaking, the Opposition was constantly creating a ruckus about demonetisation
 mantri ke mutabik, ghati main hinsa failaane ke liye paisa seemaa paar se aa rahaa tha
 Action is being taken as per the law against those who are in contact with the terrorists sitting across the border
 jabase notebandi hui he tab se ghati main hinsa main bhi kami ai he or saath hi patharbaji main bhi
 He said that both the people trading stones in the valley from fake notes are desperate
 jabase pradhanmantri narendra modi ne 1000 or 500 ke note band kiye hai tab se nakli noton ke vyapaar main mandi aa gai he
 The comments rigiju ne kaha ki ghati main patharbaji ekadam band he
 The Minister of State for Home said these things during the Question Hour, although when he was speaking, the Opposition was constantly creating a ruckus about demonetisation
 mantri ke mutabik, ghati main hinsa failaane ke liye paisa seemaa paar se aa rahaa tha
 Action is being taken as per the law against those who are in contact with the terrorists sitting across the border
 jabase notebandi hui he tab se ghati main hinsa main bhi kami ai he or saath hi patharbaji main bhi
 Rijiju said that the stonewalling in the valley is completely closed
 grih rajyamantri ne prashnkaal ke dauraan ye baaten kahin, haalanki jab vah bol rahe the to vipaksh lagaataar notebandi ko lekar hangaamaa kar rahaa tha
 According to the minister, the money was coming from across the border to spread violence in the valley
 jo bhi seemaa paar baithe aatankiyon ke sampark main hai, unke khilaaf kanoon ke mutabik karrwai kii ja rahi he
 Ever since demonetisation has taken place, there has been a decrease in violence in the valley as well as in stonewalling
 mantri ke mutabik, ghati main hinsa failaane ke liye paisa seemaa paar se aa rahaa tha
 Action is being taken as per the law against those who are in contact with the terrorists sitting across the border
 jabase notebandi hui he tab se ghati main hinsa main bhi kami ai he or saath hi patharbaji main bhi
 In such a situation, Kejriwal and his party have almost come to where they came after losing the Lok Sabha elections in 2014
 fark sirf itnaa he ki is samay dilli kii satta unke haath main he
 In such a situation, now Kejriwal himself will have to enter the election campaign in the same way as he had contested the 2015 Delhi Assembly elections
 dekh lijie ek haar ne aam aadmi party ko kahaan laakar khadaa kar diya he
 By the end of the first day's play in the Kotla Test, India have scored 296 runs losing three wickets
 gambhir 149 ran or lakshmana 54 ran banaakar krich par maujuud hai
 Earlier, as the third wicket, Master Blaster Sachin Tendulkar scored 68 runs and caught Haddin off Johnson
 match main kuch der ke liye us samay vyavdhaan utpann ho gaya jab ran lete samay gambhir or australian olerounder shen watson ke bich kaha-suni ho gai
 But after some time the match started again
 dilli ke firozshah kotla stadium main khele ja rahe is test match main bhartiya captain anil kumble ne toss jitkar pehle ballebaaji karne kaa faisla kiya
 The Indian innings did not start well
 salaami ballebaaj virendra sahvaag keval ek ran banaakar brett lee kaa shikaar ho gaye
 Lee lbw to them
 duusare wicket ke sroop main rahul dravid out ho gaye
 Dravid was caught by Hayden off Mitchell Johnson on a personal score of 11 runs
 is match ke liye bhartiya team main ek parivartan kiya gaya he
 Amit Mishra has been included in the Indian team in place of Harbhajan Singh
 harbhajan singh fitness test main paas nahin ho sake jisaki vajah se unhen team main shaamil nahin kiya gaya
 Meanwhile, captain Anil Kumble is fully fit and is leading the Indian team in this match
 chaar maichon kii test shrinkhalaa main bharat 1-0 se aage he
 Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu on Friday gifted several railway schemes in Uttar Pradesh capital Lucknow
 vah dopaher 12 baje gomtinagar railway stesan pahunche
 From here, he also inaugurated several schemes of Northern Railway, Northeast Railway and inaugurated many new schemes
 isse pehle purvottar railway ke diarem alok singh ne bataaya ki shuukravaar ko railmantri gomtinagar stesan se kai yojanaon kaa shilanyas karenge
 It also includes the foundation stone of the new building of Gomtinagar station
 gomtinagar stesan ko 108 karod rupee se sanvaara jayega
 Here a relaxation room will be built with a mall and multiplex above the station
 adhikariyon ke mutabik, shilanyas ke baad stesan nirmaan ko raftaar milegi
 In addition, the inauguration of the new bridge at Pipraghat, the foundation stone of the Gomtinagar Terminal worth Rs 108 crore, the foundation stone of six platforms will be laid at Gomtinagar station
 tippaniyan Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu will inaugurate the washing pit at Gomtinagar and will also inaugurate five new elevators and four scalators at Charbagh
 lakhanu jankshan par bane do escalator, ek mahila va ek saamaanya vatting room tathaa ek mahila va saamaanya vishramalaya kaa udghaatan bhi kiya jayega
 (apart from the headline, this news has not been edited by the NDTV team, it has been published directly from the Syndicate feed
 ) Earlier, DRM Alok Singh of Northeast Railway told that on Friday, the Railway Minister will lay the foundation stone of many schemes from Gomtinagar station
 isamen gomtinagar stesan kii nai building kaa shilanyas bhi shaamil he
 Gomtinagar station will be renovated with Rs 108 crore
 yahaan par stesan ke upar mal or multiplex ke saath vishramalaya banaaya jayega
 According to officials, the station construction will gain momentum after the foundation stone
 iske atirikt piparaghat ke nae pul kaa udghaatan, 108 karod rupee ke gomtinagar tarminal kii aadharshila, gomtinagar stesan par chah plateform kii aadharshila rakhi jaaegi
 The comments railmantri suresh prabhu gomtinagar par washing pit kaa locarpan karenge tathaa charbagh main paanch nai lift va chaar scalator kaa udghaatan bhi karenge
 Two escalators, one woman and one general waiting room and one woman and general rest room will also be inaugurated at Lucknow Junction
 (hedline ke alaava, is khabar ko enditivi team ne sampadit nahin kiya he, yah syndicate feed se sidhe prakashit kii gai he
 ) adhikariyon ke mutabik, shilanyas ke baad stesan nirmaan ko raftaar milegi
 In addition, the inauguration of the new bridge at Pipraghat, the foundation stone of the Gomtinagar Terminal worth Rs 108 crore, the foundation stone of six platforms will be laid at Gomtinagar station
 tippaniyan Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu will inaugurate the washing pit at Gomtinagar and will also inaugurate five new elevators and four scalators at Charbagh
 lakhanu jankshan par bane do escalator, ek mahila va ek saamaanya vatting room tathaa ek mahila va saamaanya vishramalaya kaa udghaatan bhi kiya jayega
 (apart from the headline, this news has not been edited by the NDTV team, it has been published directly from the Syndicate feed
 ) Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu will inaugurate the washing pit at Gomtinagar and will also inaugurate five new elevators and four scalators at Charbagh
 lakhanu jankshan par bane do escalator, ek mahila va ek saamaanya vatting room tathaa ek mahila va saamaanya vishramalaya kaa udghaatan bhi kiya jayega
 (apart from the headline, this news has not been edited by the NDTV team, it has been published directly from the Syndicate feed
 )(hedline ke alaava, is khabar ko enditivi team ne sampadit nahin kiya he, yah syndicate feed se sidhe prakashit kii gai he
 ) supreme court main sunwaayee kaa aaj bada din he
 The Supreme Court of the country is scheduled to hear important issues ranging from the Ayodhya dispute to the fighter jet Rafale
 iske saath hi jammu kashmir se jude anuchhed 35e par bhi sunwaayee ho sakati he
 However, the situation regarding this is not clear yet
 ayodhya vivadloksabhaa chunaav kii sargharmiyon ke bich desh ke sabase jwalanth mudde par aaj court sunwaayee karegaa
 The court had earlier quashed the proposed hearing on January 29 on January 27 as Justice Bobde was not available on that day
 elahabaad hai court ke 2010 ke faisle ke khilaaf supreme court main 14 apil daakhil kii gai hai
 The Allahabad High Court judgment stated that 2 in Ayodhya
 77 acre jameen ko sunni vakf board, nirmohi akhaada or ram lalaa virajman ke bich baraabar-baraabar baanta jaae
 On January 25, a five-judge bench was reconstituted as Justice UU Lalit, who was earlier involved in the bench, recused himself from hearing in the case
 supreme court ne subramanyam swami ko bhi sunwaayee ke dauraan maujuud rahane ke liye kaha he
 In fact, he has demanded permission to worship at the Ramjanmabhoomi in Ayodhya
 jisapar CJI ne unhen mangalvaar ko hone vaali sunwaayee main upasthit rahane ko kaha he
 The court will hear 2 petitions seeking to review the Supreme Court's December 14, 2018 decision related to the purchase of 36 Rafale fighter jets with the Rafale dispute
 purv kendriya mantri yashavanth sinha, arun shouri or varisht vakil prashanth bhushan ne arji lagaakar daawa kiya he ki supreme court ne apane faisle main sarkaar dwaara silband note main kiye gaye daawey jo ki bilkul asaty hai
 He has said in his appeal that the decision of the court is based on the errors in the records and not to take note of the news and information that has come later is to strangulate justice
 gauratlab he ki supreme court ne disambar, 2018 ke apane faisle main nyaayalay kii nigaraanee main rafel ladaaku vimaan saude kii sibiai jaanch karaane ko lekar sabhi yachikaayen khaarij kar di thim
 35A dispute: Jammu and Kashmir is likely to hear today in the Supreme Court regarding the validity of Article 35A giving privileges to the citizenship of the state
 pulavama hamale main 40 javaanon kii shahadat ke baad tamaam raajnneetik or media vimarsh main ek baar phir anuchhed 35e or anuchhed 370 hataane kii maang ne jor pakadaa he
 However, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has made its stand clear before the court hearing that only the elected government will take a decision on Article 35A
 flipcart samar cell (flipkart Summer Sale) ke samaapt hote hi i-commers company ne flipcart big shopping days cell (flipkart Big Shopping Days Sale) kii ghoshnaa kar di he
 The Flipkart Big Shopping Days sale will start from 15 May till 19 May
 paanch dinon tak chalane vaali is cell main smartphone, electronic, laptop or anya gagetts par discount milegaa
 Realme 2 Pro (realme 2 Pro), iphone XR, Nokia 6, Summer Sale ended on Flipkart some time ago
 1 plus (nokia 6
 Other smartphones, including 1 Plus), were sold at a discount
 flipcart big shopping days cell 2019 (flipkart Big Shopping Days Sale 2019) ke dauraan graahakon ko cashbek or discount dene ke liye liye company ne echdiefasi bank ke saath haath milaayaa he
 Currently, Flipkart has not taken the curtain from the offers received during the sale, but it has been learned that the company will give information about the offers received in the sale tomorrow
 ummid he ki nae or puraane smartphone par discount ke alaava laptop, DSLR camera or anya product bhi chhot ke saath beche ja sakate hai
 Recall that iphone XR, Nokia 6 in Flipkart Summer Sale
 1 plus (nokia 6
 1 Plus), Nokia 5
 1 plus (nokia 5
 Discounts and great deals were found on other smartphones, including 1 Plus), Realme 2 Pro, Honor 9 Lite, Honor 10 (honor 10)
 Flipkart Summer Carnival Sale main google smart home spikars bhi discount ke saath list kiye gaye the
 Google Home 7,999 rupees (MRP 9,999 rupees), while its smaller variant Google Home Mini is available for Rs 2,999 (MRP 4,999 rupees)
 dekhne vaali baat yah hogi ki aagaamee big shopping days cell main aakhir company inamen se koun-koun si dils ko waapas lekar aati he
 RJD President Lalu Prasad Yadav has been brought to Delhi for treatment
 sajaa sunaae jane ke baad se ve jharkhand kii ranchi jail main band the
 On Wednesday, he left for Delhi via train from Ranchi, during which Aaj Tak spoke to him in the train
 lalu ne bijepi ke khilaaf mahagathbandhan banane kii pahal kii, lekin congress adhyaksh rahul gandhi ke netritv karne ke sawaal ko wo taal gaye
 Third Front is not decided, Laloo said that Mamta Banerjee's Third Front initiative is very good but it is not yet decided who will lead it
 abhi netritv kaa koi sawaal nahin he, ye baad kii baat he
 Whether or not this front will be formed under the leadership of Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi, everyone will sit down and consider, as of now, there has been no talk to anyone about it
 lalu ne kaha ki saal 2019 main hone vaale chunaavon main koi alag se morcha nahin hoga, vahi morcha hoga jisamen ham sabhi log honge
 All that BJP people talk to the media is meaningless
 bijepi ke khilaaf ekajute holalu ne kaha ki jab maine raily kii thi tabhi apil kii thi ki desh khatre main he, samvidhan khatre main he or us samay maine sabhi se ek hone kii apil kii thi
 Whatever opposition parties are in the country, BJP has taken political advantage of their partition
 isiilie ham desh kii tamaam vipakshi takaton ko ek karenge
 On meeting West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's opposition parties, sonia-mamta's appeal for unity said that i had earlier appealed to Sonia Gandhi and Mamta Banerjee to be one
 mujhe khushi he ki uttar pradesh main mayawati or akhilesh usee raah par chal pade hai jo hamane sochi thi
 He said that all people are going in a good direction
 'main biimaar hum or sabhi se apil karata hum ki aap sab jald se jald ikattha hon or apane igo yaa duusari kisi bhi problem ko kinare karen or desh ko ek shashakt vikalp den
 Talking about a grand front and a front front, Lalu said that it is nothing, it is no different
 yah vahi vipakshi ekta he jo pehle thi, vahi aaj bhi he ab keval use third front kaha jaataa he
 He said that no front can be talked about by segregating or separating the Congress, because the Congress is in the opposition and all the others are also in the opposition, so all the fronts are one
 dilli main vidhansabha chunaav se pehle arvind kejariwal sarkaar ne auto chaalkon ko khush karne ke liye ek or daanv chalaa he
 The Delhi government has waived the auto's fitness fee
 iske alaava auto kii registration fees ab pehle ke mukaable aadhe se bhi kam kar di gai he
 Earlier, you had to pay 1000 rupees for auto registration, but now this amount has been reduced to only 300 rupees
 dilli sarkaar kii cabinet baithak main sim card fees, jeepies charge ko bhi maaf kar diya gaya he
 Assembly elections are due in Delhi in the early months of next year
 iske saath hi dilli ke mukhyamantri arvind kejariwal ne mangalvaar ko kaha ki dilli jalboard yah sunishchit karne ke liye prayasarat he ki rashtriya rajdhani main nalon kaa pani saaf or pine yogya ho taaki ise saaf karne ke liye aaro kii jarurat na ho
 Kejriwal is also the chairman of Delhi Jalboard
 unhone ek twit main kaha, "dilli jalboard yah sunishchit karne ke liye kadaa prayaas kar rahaa he ki aapke nalon main jo pani aae vah pine yogya ho or aapako use shuddh karne ke liye aaro kii jarurat na ho, jaisaa ki viksit deshon main hota he
 "he said," i am happy that our efforts are paying off
 ab ham yah sunishchit karne ke liye bhi kadi mehnat kar rahe hai ki aapke nalon main 24 ghante pani aae
 " barabati stadium ke curator pankaj patnayak ne bharat or srilanka ke bich yahaan hone vaale pehle vanade main kaaphi ran banane kii bhavishyavaanee kii he lekin saath hi kaha ki shaam ko os padane ke kaaran toss kii bhoomika ahm ho sakati he
 The grass is visible at some place on the pitch
 patnayak kaa maananaa he ki yah barabati stadium kii paaramparik pich nahin hogi jahaan gend dhimi or nichi rahati he
 Patnaik said, 'barabati's wicket is no longer slow
 yah ranon se bharpoor hoga
 i cannot predict the score but it will be between 280 to 300 runs
 ’barabati stadium ne teen ipel maichon kii mejabani kii thi jisamen may main kings ilevan punjab or chennai super kings ke bich taai match bhi shaamil he jisamen kaaphi ran bane the
 The curator, however, warned both captains about dew
 patnayak ne kaha, ‘hamane gaur kiya he ki raat saat baje ke baad os girane lagati he or ghaas par moti parat ban jaati he
 This is a matter of concern, but we will do everything possible to reduce its impact
 ’(input bhashaa se) Pakistan cricket team captain Shahid Afridi, who won the Indians by his reaction in the World Cup semi-finals, has said that Indians are not as big-hearted as Pakistanis
 aafridi ne bhartiya media ke ravaie ko nakaaratmak bataate hue kaaphi aalochana kii he
 In this regard, he described the Pakistani media as much better
 aafridi ne kaha, ‘meri raay main, yadi main satya kahuun to unalogon (bhartiya) kaa dil pakistaniyon kii tarah nahin he
 i believe that Allah has not given them a big heart
 ’ unhone kaha, ‘unke (bhartiya) saath lambey samay tak nahin rahaa ja saktaa he or na hi lambey samay tak sambadh rakhaa ja saktaa he
 'he was speaking on a TV program
 media ke bare main puche jane par aafridi ne kaha ki pakistan kii media kii log bhale hi aalochana karte hon lekin yah bhartiya media se sau guna behatar he
 Director Vishal Bhardwaj wants people not to pay too much attention to his upcoming film Matru Ki Bijli Ka Mandola
 mangalvaar ko ek radio stesan par film kaa sangeet laanch karte hue vishaal ne kaha ki gulabo ke item nambar hone kii baat zyada hi khinch rahi he
 nothing of the sort
 vah sirf ek kirdaar he
 i do not want people to go to film because of that
 usase zyada gulabi baaten aapako film main dekhne ko milengi
 Gulabo has a pink cow in the film which only appears to Pankaj Kapoor
 film main imran khan, anoushka or shabana azmi mukhya bhoomikaaon main hai
 Aamir Khan's film Dangal will soon complete a business of Rs 300 crore
 bharat or videshi market milakar film chaar dinon main hi 200 karod rupye hasil kar chuki he
 After the success of the film, Aamir Khan tweeted and thanked the fans of the film
 gharelu market se jahaan chaar dinon main yani somvaar tak film ko 132 karod rupee mili, vahiin videshi market main film ne 76 karod rupye kamaaye
 On Tuesday, the film grossed Rs 23 crore in India
 Thank you for all the love and warmth, and thank you for owning our film
 Love
 Team Dangal
 - Aamir Khan (@aamir_khan) December 27, 2016 Dangal broke three records: 1
 salmaan khan kii 'sultan' ne jahaan pehle somvaar ko 15
 54 crores earned, while 'dangal' 25 on the first Monday
 4 karod hasil kii
 2
 'dangal' ne ravivaar ko record sabase adhik 42
 Earned 35 crores rupees
 3
 The highest grossing film on Christmas day has also become 'dangal'
 aa rahi reports ke mutabik, gharelu market main film ne pehle din 29
 78 crores, 34 on the second day
 82 karod rupee or tisare din 42
 35 crores earned
 is tarah teen dinon main film ne 106
 Has done a business of Rs 95 crores
 jabaki pehle teen din salmaan kii film 'sultan' kaa bijness kareeb 105 karod tha
 Let me tell you that 'dangal', joining the club of 100 crores, is Aamir's fifth film
 iske pehle 'gazani', '3 idiyats', 'dhooma 3' or 'pike' ne bhi 100 karod rupee se zyada kaa bijness kiya tha
 Noida Police has solved the case of robbery of Rs 6 lakh 56 thousand from the cashier of Chitra Gas Agency, Sector-56
 police ne is maamle main teen aropiyon ko giraftaar kiya he, jabaki do aaropee ab bhi faraar hai
 The police have also recovered Rs 2 lakh 60 thousand cash, tamancha and cartridges from the captured miscreants
 aapako bataa den ki 19 farvari ko chitra gas agency ke kaisier se sector-54 sthit petrol pump ke paas se 6 lakh 56 hajaar rupee kii lut hui thi
 Police of Kotwali Sector-24, Swat team-first and Star team-first were deployed to investigate this incident
 is team ne khufia soochna ke aadhaar par agency ke ek karmchaaree ko hiraasat main liya tha
 When he was strictly questioned by the police, he confessed his crime
 police ke mutabik agency main karyrat karmchaaree 19 farvari ko bhi sector-56 sthit godaam par tainaat tha
 He only informed his colleague Bhura Yadav to carry the cash
 bhura ne ye soochna apane saathi chahat upaadhyaay, pramod urf kaale, yakesh urf chote ko bataai
 All these people had gathered at the petrol pump located in Sector-54 and robbed 6 lakh 56 thousand rupees from the employees of the gas agency going to deposit money in the bank
 is lut kii vaardaat main chahat upaadhyaay, chote, ashish verma, bhura yadav or pramod urf kaale samet anya shaamil rahe
 After looting the cash, all the accused fled towards Gizhod
 esaspi ne bataaya ki police ne gidaud nivasee chahat upaadhyaay, azamgarh nivasee ashish verma putr anup verma or aligarh nivasee bhura yadav putr tara singh yadav ko giraftaar kar liya he, jabaki bulandshahr nivasee pramod urf kaale or aligarh nivasee yakesh urf chote abhi faraar hai
 The police have recovered cash of Rs 2 lakh 60 thousand, two cartridges, 4 live cartridges, 63 thousand 80 and two receipts of Rs 2500, a mobile phone and a motorcycle involved in the robbery from the arrested accused
 philhal police inase poochtacha kar inke baaki saathiyon kii talash main juty hui he
 Moba Ilagurugram, found again in Bhondsi Jail
 jail ke barrack number 4 ke paas se jail prabandhan ko polibag mila, jisamen 11 smart mobile phone mili hai
 This is not the first time that mobiles have been recovered from Bhondsi jail
 isse pehle 26 farvari ko bhi 3 packet se 11 mobile, 5 sim or 5 mobile charger baraamad hue the
 The information of this entire latest case has been given to the Bhondsi police station and the police have started investigating it by filing a case against the unidentified person
 bhondsi jail se saal bhar main kareeb 125 se zyada mobile or sim mil chuke hai
 There are around 2500 prisoners in this jail
 pashchim bengal or assam main vidhansabha ke chunaavon ko dekhte hue sibiesai ne 12veen kii board pariksha kii tarikhon main badlaav kiye hai
 CBSE has issued a notice stating that the paper of Sociology to be held on April 4 will now be held on April 23
 vahiin,sanskrit or bengali vishyon kii parikshatarikhen bhi badali gai hai
 Elections in the state will run from April 4 to May 16
 19 may ko voton kii gananaa hogi
 Meanwhile, students and teachers are also complaining about the 12th mathematics paper held on 14 April
 unka kahana he ki kaaphi kathin sawaal puche gaye the
 Students are demanding that the mathematics test should be repeated
 zyada jaankaree ke liye link:http: / / cbse
 nic
 in / examreschedule2016
 pdf cricket maidan par kai diggaj ballebaajon ko pareshaan kar chuke purv australian fast bowler brett lee jald hi bade parde dhamal machaate najar aaenge
 Lee is starting his film career with a romantic comedy
 haal hi main gathit kiye gaye australia india film fund (efeef) kii pehali film 'anindian' oktober se sidney main production main jane vaali he
 It has been announced by Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott
 apni tarah ke iklaute is fund kii sthapana bhartiya theme vaali australian filmon ko paisa dene ke uddeshy se 2013 main kii gai thi
 Australian cricketer Brett Lee is making his film debut with this film
 film 'brick len' ke jariye khaas pahchaan banane vaali tanishta chatarji film main unki heroin hongi
 The film is written by Tussi Saathi and is directed by Anupam Sharma
 cricket ke maidan main apni gendbaaji se hadakamp machaane vaale lee ab dekhen rupahale parade par kya gajab dhaate hai
 Before the Bihar elections, when the seat-sharing was announced in the NDA, the forum was told that there is no tension
 sab ekajute hai
 But a few hours after the partition was announced, the dispute seems to be increasing
 sutron ke hawaale se khabar he ki LJP bantwaare se naaraaz he, vahiin amit shah ne der raat chiraag paswan ko milane bulaayaa
 Chirag had a one-hour meeting with Shah at the BJP president's residence
 is baithak main kendriya mantri dharmendra pradhan or bihar bijepi ke chunaav prabharee bhupendra yadav bhi maujuud rahe
 Lok Janshakti Party alleges that BJP has not given seats as promised
 yahi nahin, vah maanjhi kii 'ham' ko zyada tarjeeh dene se bhi khafa bataai ja rahi he
 Actually, LJP has been given 40 seats in the seat sharing in NDA on Monday
 jabaki paswan ke karibiyon ke mutabik LJP ko is shart par 40 siten di ja rahi thi ki kushvaha ko 15 or maanjhi ko 12 siten milengi
 Chirag Paswan is handling Morcha LJP leaders say BJP has betrayed him
 jis formule par seat tay hui wo upendra kushvaha kii party par lagu nahin hua
 Earlier it was being said that LJP leaders would meet BJP President Amit Shah and register a protest
 haalanki ab chiraag paswan mangalvaar subah press conference karenge or siton ke bantwaare par apni naaraazgi jaahir karenge
 Sources close to Paswan also say that the number of seats that were asked to be given at the time of dessert in Delhi, LJP leaders are angry with the number of seats not given at the time of announcement on Monday
 bijepi par dabaav bananaa chaahate hai paswanasutron ke mutabik, paswanbijepi par dabaavabanane kii koshish kar rahe hai, lekin bijepi kii ore se aisi koi ummid nahin dikh rahi
 Sources believe that BJP does not want to disappoint Manjhi as it will affect the party more
 LJP chaar or siton kii maang par adi hui he
 The Sensex of the Mumbai Stock Exchange, with an index of thirty shares, has dropped to 332 points as it opened today
 sensex shuruaati paanch minuton main ludhak kar 16,187
 Arrived at 03
 dhaatu or reality main 3
 There was a decline of 2 percent
 udhar rashtriya share suchakank nifti bhi 105
 4842 by rolling 30 points
 30 par ja pahunchaa
 Market sources said that after the sharp fall in the US and Asian markets, investors sold heavily, due to which this decline has been seen
 unhone bataaya ki europea bazaar kii sthiti ko dekhte hue yah giravat abhi jari rahane kii ashanka he
 On Thursday, the US market's Sensitive Index Dowsons has 3
 60 fisadi kii giravat darj kii gai jabaki japan ke bazaar nikki main aaj subah yah giravat 2
 51 percent was recorded
 is kaarobaari hafte ke aakhri din shuukravaar kojust dialake sheyaron main bade str par oochaal dekhne ko mil rahaa he
 The news of Google's acquisition of Just Dial's business is being blamed for this
 shuukravaar ko just dial kesheyaron main 20 fisadi kaa uchhaldekhane ko mila he
 With this, the last day of the business week of Just Dial investors is going to be very beneficial
 aisi khabaren hai ki google mumbai kiservice ingine just dialake bijness ko adhigrahan karne ja rahaa he
 Negotiations between the two companies are going on for this and a decision may be taken soon
 is khabar ne just dial ke sheyaron ko teji dene main badi bhoomika nibhaai he
 Around 9 in the morning on BSE
 30 baje just dial ke share 13
 Trending at a rapid pace of 86 per cent
 iconomic times kii ek report ke mutabikguglepichley kaaphi samay se just dial kaa bijness kharidne ko lekar company ke saath baatcheet kar rahaa he
 ET has quoted an investment banker associated with the deal as saying that the deal may take some time to be finalized
 google pichley kuch samay sebharat main sthaneey str par apana daayrabadhane main juta hua he
 For this, he has partnered with urbanclap and Fasos
 in companiyon ke saath milakar google bharat main google maps kii pahunch badha rahaa he
 There is currently no specific comment from Just Dial regarding this business deal with Google
 just dial ke chif financial officer (CFO) abhishek bansal ne kaha he ki company bijness deal ke liye nae logon or clients se milti rahati he
 If something like this happens, then its information will definitely be given
 just dial bhi lagaataar apana bijnase ko badhaane main juta hua he
 70 percent of the traffic received by Just Dial comes from Google
 just dial google maps or ero ke liye bada pratidwandvi sabit ho rahaa he
 In such a situation, if the deal between the two companies is final, then both are expected to benefit from it
 google or ask me jaise sarvice ingine ko takkar dene ke liye just dial kai naye prayog kar rahaa he
 Recently the company has started offering a new option of Search Plus on its site
 isse kai task ko yujar aasaani se yaad rakh saktaa he or unhen puraa kar saktaa he
 Just Dial's CFO has also hinted at a deal between Google and Just Dial in June
 unhone kaha tha ki aap log bhale hi just dial or google ko pratidwandvi ke taur par len, lekin ham google ko ek sahyogi ke taur par dekhte hai
 Just Dial is also continuously increasing its business
 just dial ko milane vaali 70 fisadi trephic google ke jariye aati he
 Just Dial is proving to be a big rival to Google Maps and Arrow
 aise main agar donon companiyon ke bich deal final hoti he, to isse donon ko phayda hone kii ummid he
 a case of sealing of a house has been reported in Brahmapuri area of seelampur assembly constituency in north-east Delhi
 yah ceiling or kisi ne nahin balki aam aadmi party ke silampur kshetra ke vidhayak haji isharaaq khan ne todi he
 a video has surfaced in which Haji Isharak Khan is seen breaking the seal with the landlord himself
 yah video ravivaar raat kareeb aath baje kaa he jab haji isharaaq khan apane samarthakon ke saath sil todane aae the
 When NDTV India asked Seelampur MLA Haji Isharaq Khan of Aam Aadmi Party whether he had broken the ceiling and if yes, why did he break it? On this, Khan said that the ceiling of the house where the ceiling has been broken was wrong
 jis makaan par sil lagaai gai thi uske pados main rahane vaale ek police vaale ne makaan maalik se ghoose maangi thi, jo makaan maalik ne nahin di
 Hence the police sealed this house with the Municipal Corporation
 haa maine sil todi he or aage bhi apane ilaake main kisi kii bhi is tarah kii gundgardee bardaasht nahin karuunga
 'the house whose seal has been broken is that of Singh Tyagi, who has been living at this place for the last 40 years
 tyaagi kaa aarope he ki 'meraa padosi police vaala ghoose na milane ke chalate beete do saal se hamako pareshaan kar rahaa he
 We do not have any illegal construction here
 hamane kai jagah adhikariyon se guhaar lagaai lekin kahin bhi sunwaayee nahin hui
 MLA Haji Isharaq Khan came for his meeting on Sunday evening
 is dauraan hamane unako apni vyathaa bataai or unhone khud aakar hamaare makaan par lagi ceiling hataa di
 AAP MLA Haji Isharaq Khan from Seelampur, Delhi, broke the ceiling of a house in Brahmapuri area of his area on Sunday night
 kaha 'MCD waalon kii gundgardee nahin chalane denge' a year ago, Delhi BJP President Manoj Tiwari also broke the ceiling, the case went to the Supreme Court pic
 twitter
 com / lf1gzpiftr Let you know that the ceiling in Delhi is mainly being done on the direction of the monitoring committee set up by the Supreme Court
 yani dilli main ceiling todna supreme court ko chunauti dene jaisaa he
 But the greed for political gains is such that the leaders are not avoiding the risk of challenging the Supreme Court
 beete saal sitambar main dilli bijepi ke adhyaksh manoj tiwari ne uttar purvi dilli ke gokulpur main ek makaan kii ceiling todi thi
 The case also went to the Supreme Court but the Supreme Court acquitted him
 nanded loksabhaa seat congress kaa garh he
 So far 19 elections have been held on this seat
 inamen se 15 baar congress jiti he
 This is the reason that recently there was news that Congress President Rahul Gandhi will contest from here
 haalanki, ab tak isaki koi aadhikarik ghoshnaa nahin hui he
 The seat is currently represented by veteran Congress leader and former Maharashtra Chief Minister Ashok Chavan
 2014 ke chunaav main modi lahar hone ke baavjood is seat se jeet hasil kii thi
 He defeated Digambar Bapuji Patil of BJP
 vahiin, 2009 ke chunaav main bhi yahaan congress jiti thi
 Bhaskararao Khatgaonkar became MP
 unhone bijepi ke sambhaji pavaar ko chunaav haraaya tha
 What has been the history of this seat
 
 
 nanded loksabhaa seat par pehla loksabhaa chunaav 1952 main hua
 From here, two mps were elected Shankarrao Telkikar and Devrao Kamble, then again in 1957, Devrao Kamble was elected MP from Congress and Harirao Sonule from Schedule Caste Federation won the election
 phir 1962 main congress ke tulsidas jadhav or 1967 or 1971 main venkatrav tarhodekar jite, 1977 main dow
 Keshavrao Dhongde was elected from the Janata Party
 1980 or 1984 main ashok chavaan ke pita shankarrav chavaan jite, jo centre main mantri bhi rahe
 Then in the 1987 by-election, Ashok Chavan reached Parliament by winning the election from this seat for the first time
 haalanki, uske baad lambey samay tak ashok chavaan dilli kii raajnneeti chhod maharashtra kii raajnneeti main vyast rahe or mukhyamantri tak bane
 From the Janata Dal in 1989, Dr
 venkatesh kabade jite
 The Congress came back in 1991
 sooryakanth patil saansad bane
 Gangadhar Deshmukh won in 1996, Bhaskararao Bapurao Khatgaonkar in 1998 and 1999
 2004 main digambar baapuji patil bijepi kii tikat par jite
 In 2009, Bhaskararao Bapurao Khatgaonkar became MP for the third time
 phir 2014 ke loksabhaa chunaav main ashok chavaan saansad bane
 What is the status of assembly constituencies
 
 
 nanded loksabhaa seat ke antargat 6 vidhansabha seat aati he
 Among these, Bhokar, Nanded, Naigaon have Congress hold
 jabaki degalur, nanded dakshin main shivasena or mukhed main bijepi he
 Why is investment or capital investment the most where there is the most underworld? Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar asked these questions to businessmen and industrialists of Bihar on a program on Saturday
 nitish bihar chambar of commers kii 90veen jayanti par yojit ek kaarykram main bol rahe the
 Although vice-president Hamid Ansari was the chief guest at the ceremony, Nitish in his speech expressed anger over the investment in the state
 nitish kumaar ne rajya kii kanoon vyavastha ke prati uthaae ja rahe sawaal par kaha ki har aparaadh ke baad rajya sarkaar tatkaal karwaai karti he or aparaadh ke aankadon se bhi dekhen to anya rajyon se bihar kii sthiti acchhee he
 There are chances of investment in the state
 unhone kaha ki bihar ke log baahar jaakar khub paisa kamaate hai, lekin agar wo thodaa-modaa bihar main bhi paisa lagaayenge to rajya kaa bhi bhala hoga or rajya main rojgaar kii sambhaavna badhegi
 In his speech, Nitish repeatedly appealed to the state's industrialists to invest in readymade garment and explore the possibility of it in Bihar, because according to him, when Bangladesh can become such a big center in this area, Bihar will also have a toil of working people
 There are immense numbers
 nitish kii maane to purv ke dinon main rajya main aadharbhoot dhaanche kaa abhaav tha, lekin isamen kaaphi sudhaar hua he or bijli kshetra kii charchaa karte hue unhone kaha ki bihar ke gramin ilaakon main log ab air-condishnar lagane lage hai
 The comments vahiin uparashtrapati hamid ansaari ne apane bhaashan main rajya sarkaar kii kanoon vyavastha par apana dhyaan kendrit rakhane kii salaah di or rajya main nivesh ke liye aavashyak maahaul banane ke liye kaha
 According to Hamid Ansari, it will still take two decades for Bihar to come under the category of least developed states with the current growth rate
 is samaaroh main rajya ke bade paanch udyogpatiyon ko bhi sammilit kiya gaya or vedant ke anil agarwal ne to ghoshnaa bhi kar di ki aane vaale dinon main rajya main kai kshetron main nivesh ke liye unhone rajya sarkaar se baatcheet shuru kii he
 Anil Aggarwal hails from Patna and said about the law and order of the state that the crime in Bihar is very sporadic
 lekin anil agarwal ne mana ki vartmaan main nitish sarkaar or centre sarkaar donon bahut majboot hai
 On the question being raised towards the law and order of the state, Nitish Kumar said that after every crime, the state government takes immediate action and even from the crime statistics, the situation in Bihar is better than other states
 rajya main nivesh kii sambhaavna hai
 He said that the people of Bihar earn a lot of money by going out, but if they put money in a little bit of Bihar too, the state will also benefit and the chances of employment in the state will increase
 nitish ne baar-baar apane bhaashan main rajya ke upadyogpatiyon ko radimaid garment ke kshetra main nivesh karne or bihar main isaki sambhaavna talashne kii apil kii, kyonki unke anusaar jab bangladesh is kshetra main itnaa bada centre ban saktaa hai tab bihar main bhi mehanatakash logon kii apaar sankhya hai
 According to Nitish, there was a lack of infrastructure in the state in the past, but it has improved a lot and referring to the power sector, he said that people are now installing air-conditioners in rural areas of Bihar
 tippaniyan At the same time, Vice President Hamid Ansari in his speech advised the state government to keep its focus on law and order and to create the necessary environment for investment in the state
 hamid ansaari kii maane to vartmaan vikaas dar se bihar ko kam se kam viksit rajyon kii shrenee main aane main abhi bhi do dashak lag jaaenge
 The ceremony also included the top five industrialists of the state and Anil Aggarwal of Vedanta even announced that in the days to come, he has started talks with the state government for investment in many sectors in the state
 anil agarwal patna ke hi rahane vaale hai or rajya kii kanoon vyavastha ke bare main kaha ki jo krime bihar main hai vah bahut chhitput he
 But Anil Aggarwal admitted that both the Nitish government and the central government are very strong at present
 rajya main nivesh kii sambhaavna hai
 He said that the people of Bihar earn a lot of money by going out, but if they put money in a little bit of Bihar too, the state will also benefit and the chances of employment in the state will increase
 nitish ne baar-baar apane bhaashan main rajya ke upadyogpatiyon ko radimaid garment ke kshetra main nivesh karne or bihar main isaki sambhaavna talashne kii apil kii, kyonki unke anusaar jab bangladesh is kshetra main itnaa bada centre ban saktaa hai tab bihar main bhi mehanatakash logon kii apaar sankhya hai
 According to Nitish, there was a lack of infrastructure in the state in the past, but it has improved a lot and referring to the power sector, he said that people are now installing air-conditioners in rural areas of Bihar
 tippaniyan At the same time, Vice President Hamid Ansari in his speech advised the state government to keep its focus on law and order and to create the necessary environment for investment in the state
 hamid ansaari kii maane to vartmaan vikaas dar se bihar ko kam se kam viksit rajyon kii shrenee main aane main abhi bhi do dashak lag jaaenge
 The ceremony also included the top five industrialists of the state and Anil Aggarwal of Vedanta even announced that in the days to come, he has started talks with the state government for investment in many sectors in the state
 anil agarwal patna ke hi rahane vaale hai or rajya kii kanoon vyavastha ke bare main kaha ki jo krime bihar main hai vah bahut chhitput he
 But Anil Aggarwal admitted that both the Nitish government and the central government are very strong at present
 nitish ne baar-baar apane bhaashan main rajya ke upadyogpatiyon ko radimaid garment ke kshetra main nivesh karne or bihar main isaki sambhaavna talashne kii apil kii, kyonki unke anusaar jab bangladesh is kshetra main itnaa bada centre ban saktaa hai tab bihar main bhi mehanatakash logon kii apaar sankhya hai
 According to Nitish, there was a lack of infrastructure in the state in the past, but it has improved a lot and referring to the power sector, he said that people are now installing air-conditioners in rural areas of Bihar
 tippaniyan At the same time, Vice President Hamid Ansari in his speech advised the state government to keep its focus on law and order and to create the necessary environment for investment in the state
 hamid ansaari kii maane to vartmaan vikaas dar se bihar ko kam se kam viksit rajyon kii shrenee main aane main abhi bhi do dashak lag jaaenge
 The ceremony also included the top five industrialists of the state and Anil Aggarwal of Vedanta even announced that in the days to come, he has started talks with the state government for investment in many sectors in the state
 anil agarwal patna ke hi rahane vaale hai or rajya kii kanoon vyavastha ke bare main kaha ki jo krime bihar main hai vah bahut chhitput he
 But Anil Aggarwal admitted that both the Nitish government and the central government are very strong at present
 nitish kii maane to purv ke dinon main rajya main aadharbhoot dhaanche kaa abhaav tha, lekin isamen kaaphi sudhaar hua he or bijli kshetra kii charchaa karte hue unhone kaha ki bihar ke gramin ilaakon main log ab air-condishnar lagane lage hai
 The comments vahiin uparashtrapati hamid ansaari ne apane bhaashan main rajya sarkaar kii kanoon vyavastha par apana dhyaan kendrit rakhane kii salaah di or rajya main nivesh ke liye aavashyak maahaul banane ke liye kaha
 According to Hamid Ansari, it will still take two decades for Bihar to come under the category of least developed states with the current growth rate
 is samaaroh main rajya ke bade paanch udyogpatiyon ko bhi sammilit kiya gaya or vedant ke anil agarwal ne to ghoshnaa bhi kar di ki aane vaale dinon main rajya main kai kshetron main nivesh ke liye unhone rajya sarkaar se baatcheet shuru kii he
 Anil Aggarwal hails from Patna and said about the law and order of the state that the crime in Bihar is very sporadic
 lekin anil agarwal ne mana ki vartmaan main nitish sarkaar or centre sarkaar donon bahut majboot hai
 At the same time, Vice President Hamid Ansari in his speech advised the state government to keep its focus on law and order and to create the necessary environment for investment in the state
 hamid ansaari kii maane to vartmaan vikaas dar se bihar ko kam se kam viksit rajyon kii shrenee main aane main abhi bhi do dashak lag jaaenge
 The ceremony also included the top five industrialists of the state and Anil Aggarwal of Vedanta even announced that in the days to come, he has started talks with the state government for investment in many sectors in the state
 anil agarwal patna ke hi rahane vaale hai or rajya kii kanoon vyavastha ke bare main kaha ki jo krime bihar main hai vah bahut chhitput he
 But Anil Aggarwal admitted that both the Nitish government and the central government are very strong at present
 is samaaroh main rajya ke bade paanch udyogpatiyon ko bhi sammilit kiya gaya or vedant ke anil agarwal ne to ghoshnaa bhi kar di ki aane vaale dinon main rajya main kai kshetron main nivesh ke liye unhone rajya sarkaar se baatcheet shuru kii he
 Anil Aggarwal hails from Patna and said about the law and order of the state that the crime in Bihar is very sporadic
 lekin anil agarwal ne mana ki vartmaan main nitish sarkaar or centre sarkaar donon bahut majboot hai
 Congress and BJP are face to face amid controversy over Facebook data leak case
 lekin jaise hi congress ke ap (with INC) par sawaal uthaa to, party ne aanan-fanan main is ap ko play store se hataa diya
 In a way, the Congress has now come on the backfoot in this matter
 darasal fasebuk data li vivaad saamne aane ke baad se congress adhyaksh rahul gandhi samet tamaam bade netaa bijepi par hamalavar the, rahul ne 'namo ap' par sawaal uthaate hue aarope lagaaya ki iske jariye sikret data ko li kiya ja rahaa he
 On which BJP had to give cleanliness
 lekin jaise hi congress par (with INC) ko lekar sawaal daaga gaya to, party ne is ap ko google play store se hataa diya or saath hi congress sadsyta vaali website (membership
 inc
 in) ko bhi band kar diya gaya
 When questions arose about the sudden removal, it was clarified by the Congress that this app was not in use for the last 5 months
 Congress deletes its official mobile phone application from Google's Play Store after reports that the data from the app was being routed to servers in Singapore
 pic
 twitter
 com / dvydikxejs — ANI (@ANI) March 26, 2018 Congress says that (with INC) app was removed from INC website only on 16 November 2017, although Congress has admitted that it was deleted from Google Play Store today Gone
 iske alaava congress kaa kahana he ki party membership ke liye website (membership
 inc
 in) ke bajaay online membership ke naam se he
 On behalf of the party, this has been shown by marking the correct URL of the website
 The withinc app is a membership app & has not been in use for over 5 months since we moved membership tohttps: / / t
 co / hkouqdj8hnfrom 16th Nov 2017
 The URL (https: / / t
 co / s6ecgp0oet) quoted by the media is the defunct URL from the app
 The actual membership URL can be seen belowpic
 twitter
 com / bxfxbedcug— Congress (@incindia)march 26, 2018darasal congress ke ap (with INC) par aarope tha ki ise mobile par stall karte hue data singapore sthit sarwar main pahunch jaataa he
 Not only this, a Twitter handle (@ fs0c131y) by the name of Eliot Alderson has claimed in a tweet on Sunday that i have received some interesting information related to the Congressional app, details will be published tomorrow
 When you apply for membership in the official@incindia # android # app, your personal data are send encoded through a HTTP request tohttps: / / t
 co / t1pidqumtq
 pic
 twitter
 com / 6rh0oryrqd— Elliot Alderson (@fs0c131y)march 26, 2018saath hi alderson ne aaj subah ek or twit kiya
 In which it was written, 'when you apply for membership on the Android App of Congress, your personal information is membership
 inc
 Goes to in
 jiske baad se congress ke google play store se (with INC) ap or party kii website (membership
 inc
 in) gaayab he
 Various equations have been tried in the states with the expansion of the Union Council of Ministers
 rahul gandhi ke mishan-2014 ko dhyaan main rakhte hue congress ne uttar pradesh main jatigat samikarnon ko saadhane kii koshish kii
 However, it could not be as successful as the Congress leaders of the state wanted
 gonda ke saansad or benny prasad verma ko tarakkee de ispaat rajyamantri se cabinet mantri banaakar kurmi matadaataaon main party kii paith badhaane kii koshish kii gai he
 He was once very close to SP chief Mulayam Singh Yadav
 centre sarkaar main uttar pradesh ke ekmaatr muslim chehre salmaan khurshid kaa kad badhaakar pradesh kii raajnneeti main ahm bhoomika nibhaane vaale muslim matadaataaon ko party se jodne kii kavayad kii gai he
 The party believes that Muslims have been continuously eroding from the SP
 aise main, kabhi congress kaa paramparaagat vot bank rahe musalamaanon ko phir se lubhaane ke liye khurshid kaa rutaba badhaayaa gaya he
 State party president Rita bahuguna-joshi, however, is seeing the Brahmins returning from the BSP returning to the Congress due to Rajiv Shukla being made a minister of state at the center, but according to political observers, it is a sham
 party ke hi kai netaa sweekaarte hai ki shukla kaa pradesh main ratti bhar bhi kahin koi janaadhar nahin rahaa he or ve bas udaaku netaa rahe hai
 There is no question of his acceptance as a Brahmin leader in the state
 ek ahm baat yah bhi he ki uttar pradesh se saat mantri hone ke baavjood pradesh ke pashchimi ilaake se, jahaan kisaanon kii jameen ko lekar haahaakaar machaa hua he, ek bhi mantri nahin he
 Rahul also did his padayatra and Kisan Panchayat here
 jaahir he ki kshetreey santulan saadhane main chook hui he
 Union minister Mahadev Khandela, close to Chief Minister Gehlot in Rajasthan, had a sword hanging but managed to hold the chair
 si
 P
 joshi, namonarayan meena or sachin payalat pehle se mantri hai
 Now Bhanwar Jitendra Singh, close to Rahul, has also been inducted as Minister of State for Home
 ve alvar ke saansad or purv rajgaraane ke pratinidhi hai
 When he became a minister, he could not handle his emotion and his words of Hindi were staggering while taking oath
 vaise ve jamini netaa rahe hai or hindi-rajasthani bolne vaali janata se unka gaharaa vaasta rahaa he
 If his close friends are to be believed, "his voice got stuttered due to more emotion
 ''jitendra singh ko ek din kii bhi fursat na mili
 On the second day of taking office, he had to be active due to bomb blasts in Mumbai
 tay ho gaya ki unhen apni chhap chhodane ke liye khaasi mashkkat kerani hogi
 In the Council of Ministers, the Congress has tried to make him stand as an important leader of the state
 rajasthan main unhen bhavishya ke mukhyamantri ke damdaar daavedaar ke rup main dekha ja rahaa he
 Surface Transport Minister C
 C
 since his removal from the post of Pradesh Congress President and Union Ministry of Rural Development
 pi
 Joshi's status has also decreased
 joshi ke saath jitendra singh ke vaise achche sameekaran rahe hai lekin unhone jaipur kii raajnneeti se apane ko hameshaa dur rakhaa
 The Gehlot camp will not be happy with the political promotion of Jitendra Singh as he has been known to pursue spicers and below average leaders
 kuch kii to raay he ki joshi bhi nae ghatnakram se khush nahin honge kyonki aakhirkaar ve bhi ek satta centre hai
 According to State Congress spokesperson Satyendra Raghav, Jitendra Singh can give a good fight to Vasundhara Raje in the state
 jat netaa khandela alaakaman ke nazle se batch gaye
 Apart from Joshi, the other state ministers at the center, Namonarayan Meena and Sachin Pilot, have also been doing better
 uttar pradesh main agar kshetreey santulan saadhane main mushkil ai to rajasthan main gahalot kheme ko jhtke ke saath ek or satta centre ubharta dikhaa
 Power politics likewise brings with it some shocking aspects
 pradhanmantri narendra modi ne sufiwaad ko shanti kii aawaaj qaraar dete hue kaha ki allaah ke 99 naamon main se koi bhi hinsa se nahin judaa he
 Addressing the 'world Sufi Forum', the Prime Minister said, 'sufism is a call for peace, co-existence, compassion, equality and global brotherhood
 'modine kaha ki 'jab ham allaah ke 99 naamon ke bare main sochate hai to unamem se koi bhi bal or hinsa se nahin judata
 The first two names of Allah are Kripalu and Rahmadil
 allaah rahamaan or rahim hai
 Sufism is a celebration of diversity and diversity
 ' unhone punjabi sufi kavi, mavatavaadi or darshanik bulle shah kaa zikr bhi kiya
 Fight Against Terror Not Against Religion Modi also targeted those who spread terror all over the world under the guise of religion
 unhone kaha, 'jo log dharm ke naam par aatank failaate hai ve dharm virdohi hai
 The fight against terrorism is not against any religion nor can it be
 'sufiwaad shanti or sahishnutaa kaa pratikpradhanmantri ne bhartiya kavita main sufiwaad ke bade yogadan or bhartiya sangeet ke vikaas main uske gahare prabhaav kaa bhi ullekh kiya
 Regarding the Sufi Forum, the Prime Minister said, 'this is a forum of people who themselves live with the message of peace, tolerance and love
 ham sabhi ishwar kii rachana hai or yadi ham ishwar se prem karte hai to ham har haal main uski sari rachanaaon se bhi prem karte hai
 ' shahid kapur or kiyaara adwani starer film kabir singh kaa jaadu duusare hafte main bhi barkaraar he
 Kabir Singh is making box office collections at the box office
 relies ke 11wein din kabir singh ne box offis par 9
 07 crores
 film kii ab tak kul kamai 190
 64 crores has been spent
 trade exparts kii raay main kabir singh 2019 kii sabase badi game changer film ban gai he
 Kabir Singh scored 17 on Saturday in the second week
 10 karod, ravivaar ko 17
 84 crores, 9 on Monday
 07 karod rupee kaa collection kiya
 Kabir Singh's total earnings till Monday was 190
 64 karod rupee ho chuki he
 The film is just a few blocks away from the 200 crore club
 film kii kamai ke trend ko dekhte hue kaha ja saktaa he ki film 12wein din 200 karod kii kamai ke bench mark ko chhu legi
 # kabirsinghremains unstoppable
 
 
 Will breach ₹ 200 cr mark + cross *lifetime biz* of # Bharatin Week 2 itself
 
 
 Next target: Surpassing * lifetime biz * of # Uri
 
 
 [week 2] Fri 12
 21 cr, Sat 17
 10 cr, Sun 17
 84 cr, Mon 9
 07 cr
 Total: ₹ 190
 64 cr
 India biz
 — taran adarsh (@taran_adarsh)july 2, 2019film kii saxes rate ko dekhte hue trade analist taran adarsh ne twit karte hue bataaya ki kabir singh ne banchamark set kar diya he
 He has expressed hope that the film may soon cross the 250 crore, 275 crore and 300 crore mark
 yah 2019 kii best trending film ban gai he
 Everyone's guesstimating the * lifetime biz * of # kabirsingh
 
 
 ₹ 250 cr? ₹ 275 cr? ₹ 300 cr? Maybe more?
 
 
 # kabirsinghcontinues to surprise every single day, so it's pointless arriving at a number right now
 
 
 The sky is the limit, that’s all i can say at the moment
 - taran adarsh (@taran_adarsh) July 2, 20192019 is a game changer
 
 
 Could anyone envision or foresee the fantabulous, eye popping biz of # Uriand # kabirsinghat the outset?
 
 
 These two films have surpassed * lifetime biz * of * all * biggies released in 2019 by a wide margin
 
 
 Boxoffice can be so unpredictable!— taran adarsh (@taran_adarsh)july 2, 2019bataa den ki kabir singh telugu film arjuna reddy kii hindi rimek he
 The film stars Kiara Advani, Adil Hussain, Soham Mazumdar, Arjun, Suresh Oberoi, Nikita Dutta and Kunal Thakur opposite Shahid Kapoor
 ye saal 2019 kii sabase badi hindi openar filmon kii list main chauthe number par he, 2019 kii abhi tak kii sabase zyada kamai karne vaali teesri film ban chuki he or is saal kii abhi tak kii badi opening karne vaali iklauti non holiday film he
 The country's Attorney General GE Vahanvati has told the CBI that the CBI will have to seek the Centre's permission before prosecuting former IB officials in the Ishrat Jahan encounter case
 gauratlab he ki sibiai ne ishrat jahaan farji muthbhed maamle main guuruuvaar ko doosraa aarope patr daayar karte hue khufia beuro ke purv vishesh nideshak rajendra kumaar tathaa teen adhikariyon ke khilaaf hatya evam sajeesh ke aarope lagaae hai
 Former Gujarat minister Amit Shah was not named in the charge sheet
 kanoon mantralay kii ore se adhikariyon ke khilaaf mukadmaa chalaae jane kii anumati nahin milane ke baavjood sibiai ne 1979 batch ke ipies adhikari kumaar tathaa pi mittal, emke sinha or rajeev vankhade ke naam aarope patr main shaamil kiye hai
 Kumar retired last year
 in logon ko bhartiya dand samhita kii dhara 120-bi (aapraadhik sajeesh), hatya or apharan kaa aaropee banaaya gaya he
 Kumar has been charged with additional charges under the Arms Act
 sibiai ne aarope lagaaya he ki kumaar ne muthbhed se ek din pehle 14 june, 2004 ko aropiyon ko hathiyaar muhaiyaa karaae the
 The CBI has alleged in the supplementary charge sheet that Kumar handed over weapons and ammunition to Gujarat Police officer G
 Singhal
 singhl ne inhen nizamuddin said ke jariye tarun barot tak pahunchaaya
 These weapons and ammunition were used to carry out the crime
 ishrat muthbhed ke samay kumaar ibi ke sanyukt nideshak the
 The name of Shah, a close aide of Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi, has not been included in the charge sheet, though Singhal had accused him
 sibiai ke sutron ne bataaya ki maamle kii abhi jaanch chal rahi he or unhone yah bhi kaha ki jaanch agency kanoon mantralay kii ore se mukadmaa chalaane kii manjuuri ke bina aarope patr daayar kar rahi he
 The investigating agency had requested additional charges against retired Deputy Superintendent of Police JG Parmar under section 193 of the IPC
 parmaar kaa naam pehle hi aarope patr main shaamil ho chukaa he
 Section 193 of the IPC deals with sentencing in any judicial process for intentionally giving false evidence or for producing fake evidence for the purpose of being used in the judicial process
 sibiai ke vakil ejaj khan ne atirikt mukhya nyaayik magistrate ne kaha ki ibi adhikariyon ne ishrat tathaa teen anya logon ko maarane kii sajeesh rachi thi
 Apart from Ishrat, Javed, Sheikh alias Parnesh Pillai, Amjad Ali and Jishan Johar were killed
 cricket australia (sie) ne isisi kii ilit panel ke ampaire derel harper ko apane desh ke ampairon ko shikshit karne kaa kaam saunpa he
 Harper was supposed to play the umpire in the third Test match played between India and West Indies in Dominica but he has withdrawn his name from the Test after he raised a finger on his decisions in the first Test
 dominica test ke saath harper kaa kariyar samaapt hona tha lekin aalochana ne unhen usase pehle hi sanyas par majaboor kar diya
 CA, however, congratulated Harper for joining her
 sie ke ampaire prabandhak seen kerri ne kaha, "harper kaa kariyar shandaar rahaa he
 He is Australia's most experienced Test umpire and his dedication to the game has been worth watching
 " "ham harper ke anubhavon kaa phayda uthaanaa chaahate hai or isi kaaran hamane unhen apane ampairon ko shikshit karne kaa kaam saunpa he
 They can contribute well in the maintenance of our human resources
 " bjp's Gujarat in-charge, Bhupendra Yadav said, "congress has always come to power and tries to make constitutional institutions a puppet
 emes gil ko congress ne usee din party main shaamil karaayaa jis din vah ritair hue
 
 
 He was then made an MP and then a minister
 
 
 tien sheshan ko bhi chunaav congress ne ladvaya tha
 "clearly, this sharp clash indicates that the battle of Gujarat has become a very nasal battle
 mausam vigyaan vibhaag ke adhikariyon ke anusaar shahar or iske upnagareey ilaakon main ardharatri ke baad kuch second ke liye bukamp ke jatke mahasoos kiye gayi
 Police, however, said that there was no loss of life or property
 police ke anusaar kuch second tak jatke mahasoos kiye jane ke baad gopalpuram, kodambakkam, porur, tiruvanamiur, anna nagar or anya kai ilaakon main log dehshat main apane apane gharon se baahar nikal aaye
 Officials said 7 of Andaman and Nicobar Islands
 9 ansh uttar or 91
 9 degrees ago
 pashchim tat par aadhi raat ke baad 12 bajkar 56 minute par aaye bukamp ke prabhaav ke chalate jatke mahasoos kiye gayi, jisaki tivrata richter paimaane par 7
 Was 8
 in dinon bharat main Netflix kaa craij kaaphi he or company bharat ke liye lagaataar contant bhi taiyaar kar rahi he
 Like Amazon Prime, Netflix has to pay for a subscription
 halanki ya amejon prime video se mahangaa he
 One month you can use Netflix for free, this will be known
 iske liye aapako sin ap karnaa hota he or apane card ditels darj karne hote hai
 After this, Netflix is free for a month
 ek maheenaa khatm ho gaya, iske baad aapako har maheene sabsakripshan ke liye paise dene honge
 If you want it free, then you have to adopt some methods which are official
 mobile to yuj karte hi honge
 Airtel and Vodafone offer Netflix for their users
 airtel postped :agar aapke paas airtel kaa postped number he to aapako sabase pehle teen maheene tak free netflix sabsakripshan milegaa
 If your plan is 499 or above, then you are eligible for this offer
 iske liye airtel tivi eps ke thanks pej par janaa hoga
 This is for new old Netflix customers
 vodaphone postped :aap vodaphone postped yujar hai to aapako bhi netflix kii free sabsakripshan mil sakati he
 If you are buying Samsung's flagship Galaxy S10 series smartphone, then Vodafone will get Netflix subscription for one year for free
 iske liye aapako vodaphone red plan rakhana hog
 If you are not taking Galaxy S10 and you have postpaid of Vodafone, you will still get free Netflix
 lekin sirf 2 maheene ke liye hi
 For this, you have to take Vodafone's RED International plan which is Rs 999
 is plan ke saath do maheen ke liye netflix ke saath ek saal tak ke liye amejon prime kii sabsakripshan milti he
 ACT Fibernet: For customers in Delhi, Chennai, Bangalore and Hyderabad, this company is operating on Netflix
 yani agar aap ACT fibronet kaa internet yuj karte hai to aapako Netflix sabsakripshan lene par har maheene 350 rupee kaa cashbek milegaa
 It will be added to the account of ACT
 TIP: Netflix ke saath ek opshan ye he ki ek saath chaar divaais main ek acount ko yuj kar sakate hai
 So if you take a plan of 1000 rupees and run it in four devices, obviously these are cheaper options for you
 doston ke saath share karnaa bhi ek acha opshan ho saktaa he
 In Jammu and Kashmir, the attacks on the army and the police are not taking the name of stopping the attacks
 jammu-kashmir ke badgam jile main aatankiyon ne ek pulicekarmi kii hatya kar di or maukey se faraar ho gaye
 In fact, a group of terrorists attacked and opened fierce fire on a police post near charar-e-sharif Dargah in Central Kashmir's Budgam district on Sunday
 is golibari main aatankiyon kii goliyon kaa saamana kar rahaa ek pulicekarmi shahid ho gaya
 Regarding the attack of the terrorist, an official said, 'the militants opened fire on the police post near the dargah of Sufi Sheikh Nooruddin Noorani in charar-e-sharif area on Sunday afternoon
 is golibari main kultar singh naam kaa ek pulicekarmi ghayal ho gaya
 After which Kultar was rushed to the hospital, where he died
 'srinagar: Wreath laying ceremony of sgct Kultar Singh who lost his life after he was fired upon by terrorists in Budgam's Charari Sharief where he was deployed for protection of the shrine # jammuandkashmirpic
 twitter
 com / ozbzkfso9v— ANI (@ani)february 25, 2018bataaya ja rahaa he ki jiyaaratgah kii suraksha main tainaat pulicekarmi kultar singh par shraddhaluon ke bhesh main aae aatankiyon ne goliyaan chalaayin, jiske baad vahaan maujuud logon main hadakamp much gaya
 As soon as the bullet hit Kultar Singh fell there
 unhen girtaa dekh anya pulicekarmi bhi vahaan pahunche or khun se lathpath kultar ko aspataal lekar gaye
 According to the information, after the firing, the terrorists escaped with the rifle of the policeman
 haalanki, vaardaat ke baad maukey par pahunche surakshakarmiyon ne ilaake ko gher liya or search oparation shuru kar diya
 BJP has launched its new website for 'mission 272 Plus' in the Lok Sabha elections 2014
 is website kaa naam he india 272 dot com (www
 india272
 com)
 bjp's effort is to connect more and more youth to this movement through this website
 is website main ek video bhi daalaa gaya he
 This video is an advertisement of Mission 272 in a way
 is vigyaapan ke ant main ek naaraa diya gaya he, 'baaten nahin, baatcheet karte hai
 'the video shows some youngsters talking, who are discussing about changing the country
 is website main bijepi or narendra modi ke aane vaale kaaryakramon kii jaankaree ke saath-saath ek section twit kaa bhi he
 BJP leaders will be seen on this website whenever they tweet
 'baaten nahin baatcheet' kaa conceptdylogs (dialogues) naam kaa ek kaarykram tay kiya gaya he, jiske tahat 272 se zyada netaa volantirs se aamane-saamne baatcheet karenge
 Dialogues will be started by Narendra Modi
 modi un logon se aamane-saamne baatcheet karenge, jo is website ke jariye is abhiyaan kaa hissaa banenge
 Volunteers' views will be heard and they will also be discussed on the country's problems and their solutions
 ye he video- Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday congratulated the Indian women's hockey team for winning the Asian Champions Trophy for the first time by registering a thrilling 2–1 win in the final against China in Singapore
 pradhanmantri ne apane twitor handle par likhaa, 'hamaari mahila hockey team ko asian champions trophy 2016 jeetne par badhai
 This is a big moment for Indian hockey
 ' bhartiya mahila team kii jeet se kuch din pehle purush team ne malaysia ke kuantan main pakistan ko haraakar asian champions trophy kaa khitaab jeeta tha
 The comments congress adhyaksh sonia gandhi ne bhi bhartiya mahila hockey team ko khitaab jeetne par badhai di
 He said, "this victory confirmed India's dominance in hockey in Asia
" ' party ke upaadhyaksh rahul gandhi ne bhi apane twitor pej par team ko badhai di
 She wrote, 'congratulations to the women's hockey team on winning the Asian Champions Trophy
 shandaar uplabdhi or bhartiya hockey ke liye gauravshaalee kshan
 (this news has not been edited by the NDTV team
 yah syndicate feed se sidhe prakashit kii gai he
 ) pradhanmantri ne apane twitor handle par likhaa, 'hamaari mahila hockey team ko asian champions trophy 2016 jeetne par badhai
 This is a big moment for Indian hockey
 ' bhartiya mahila team kii jeet se kuch din pehle purush team ne malaysia ke kuantan main pakistan ko haraakar asian champions trophy kaa khitaab jeeta tha
 The comments congress adhyaksh sonia gandhi ne bhi bhartiya mahila hockey team ko khitaab jeetne par badhai di
 He said, "this victory confirmed India's dominance in hockey in Asia
" ' party ke upaadhyaksh rahul gandhi ne bhi apane twitor pej par team ko badhai di
 She wrote, 'congratulations to the women's hockey team on winning the Asian Champions Trophy
 shandaar uplabdhi or bhartiya hockey ke liye gauravshaalee kshan
 (this news has not been edited by the NDTV team
 yah syndicate feed se sidhe prakashit kii gai he
 ) congress adhyaksh sonia gandhi ne bhi bhartiya mahila hockey team ko khitaab jeetne par badhai di
 He said, "this victory confirmed India's dominance in hockey in Asia
" ' party ke upaadhyaksh rahul gandhi ne bhi apane twitor pej par team ko badhai di
 She wrote, 'congratulations to the women's hockey team on winning the Asian Champions Trophy
 shandaar uplabdhi or bhartiya hockey ke liye gauravshaalee kshan
 (this news has not been edited by the NDTV team
 yah syndicate feed se sidhe prakashit kii gai he
 ) (this news has not been edited by the NDTV team
 yah syndicate feed se sidhe prakashit kii gai he
 ) gujarat ke godhra main sabarmati express main lagi aag or uske baad hue dangon kii jaanch kar rahe nanavati ayog ne aaj apni pehali report vidhansabha main pesh kii
 This report says that no evidence has been found against Chief Minister Narendra Modi in the Godhra riots
 haalanki report main yah jarur kaha gaya he ki sabarmati express main lagi aag ek durghatana nahin balki suniyojit shadyantra he
 The Commission's report also denies the involvement of any politician or police officer during the riots
 is report ke anusaar 27 farvari 2002 ko sabarmati express ke coach sankhya chah ko jalaane main 140 litre petrol kaa istemaal kiya gaya tha
 The Congress boycotted the House after the report was tabled in the Gujarat Legislative Assembly
 is maamle kii railway kii ore se jaanch kar chuke nyaayadhish you si banerjee ne kaha ki maine bhi apni jaanch ke dauraan yahi paaya ki yah ek durghatnamaatr he naa ki purv niojit shadyantra
 Unfortunately, 250 passengers did not survive the incident that day
 bhaajapa pravaktaa prakaash jaavdekar ne report par khushi jataate hue kaha ki aakhir sach saamne aa hi gaya
 Many tried to dismiss this report as their own, calling it a conspiracy
 congress ne is report ko vishwasaneey maanane se inkaar kar diya he
 Party Spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said that the only hope from the Nanavati Commission was that he would give a clean chit to Modi
 samaajik kaaryakarta tista sitalwad ne kaha ki aanevaale chunaav ko dekhte hue yah report bhaajapa ke liye laayaa gaya he
 The full copy of this report should be made public
 avkaash praapt nyaayadhishon- ji tii nanavati or nyaayadhish akshay mehta ne gujarat sarkaar ko godhra ayog kii pehle hisse kii report pichley saptaah saunp di thi
 This commission was formed in 2002, which submitted its first report after six years
 disambar tak duusari report saunpe jane kii sambhaavna he
 An NGO filed a petition in the Gujarat High Court challenging the report, which was rejected by the court
 police kii jaanch main pataa chalaa he ki aropiyon ne bike ranibagh ilaake se churaai thi
 Police are currently searching for the owner of the bike
 (input bhashaa se) Inflation based on wholesale prices increased to 6 in August
 10 fisadi darj kii gai
 According to government data released on Monday, this rate is the highest in the last six months and 18 percent increase in food inflation and 245 percent increase in onion prices played a major role in the rise in overall inflation
 iske saath hi mahangaai main vruddhi ke kaaran is saptaah ke aakhir main bhartiya rigerv bank dwaara kii jane vaali maudrik niti kii ghoshnaa main dar katautee kii ummid bhi dharashaayi ho gai
 Inflation based on the wholesale price index rose to 6 in August, according to data released by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry
 10 fisadi rahi, jo july main 5
 79 percent
 pichley saal kii samaan avadhi main yah dar 8
 Was 01 percent
 agast main khaadya mahangaai dar badhkar 18
 18 per cent, compared to 9 in the same period a year ago
 34 fisadi thi
 In July this year, the rate 11
 9 fisadi thi
 During this period, the price of vegetables increased almost two times
 pyaaj is bich 244
 62 percent became expensive
 andey, maance or machhliyaan 18
 86 percent, rice 20
 13 fisadi, gehun 7
 6 percent and grain 14
 35 fisadi mahangaa ho gaye
 In his response to the latest figures, Chairman of Prime Minister's Economic Advisory Committee C
 rangarajan ne kaha ki rupee main avamulyan se mahangaai kaa dabaav badha he
 Rangarajan, however, said that inflation will come down in the coming days due to better monsoon
 unhone kaha ki kaarobaari saal kii samaapti tak mahangaai dar 5
 Will come to 5 percent
 june maheene ke liye thok mulya suchakank par aadhaarit mahangaai dar ko sanshodhit kar 5
 16 per cent, which was earlier 4
 86 fisadi par rakhaa gaya tha
 In August, inflation in fuel, electricity and primary articles also increased significantly
 praathmik vastuon main mahangaai 11
 72 percent and fuel and electricity inflation 11
 34 fisadi badi
 The comments bhartiya udyog parisangh ke mahanideshak chandrajit banerjee ne kaha, "mahangaai main teji or khaskar khaadya keemton main teji se aapurti baadhaon ko dur kiye jane kii jarurat kaa pataa chalata he
 "he said that despite rising inflation, the Reserve Bank should not back down from rate cuts
 federation of indian chambar of commers and industry (fikki) ke mahasachiv e
 Emphasizing the rate cut, Didar Singh said, "keeping inflation down should be a priority, but it is imperative that we instill hope in investors and work for high growth
 " With this, the expectation of a rate cut in the announcement of monetary policy by the Reserve Bank of India later this week due to the increase in inflation also came to an end
 vaanijya or udyog mantralay dwaara jari aankadon ke mutabik thok mulya suchakank par aadhaarit mahangaai dar agast main badhkar 6
 10 percent, which was 5 in July
 79 fisadi thi
 This rate 8 in the same period last year
 01 fisadi thi
 Food inflation rose to 18 in August
 18 fisadi rahi, jo ek saal pehle samaan avadhi main 9
 Was 34 percent
 is saal july main yah dar 11
 Was 9 percent
 is dauraan subjiyon kii keemat badhkar lagbhag do guni ho gai
 Onion meanwhile 244
 62 fisadi mahangaa ho gaya
 Eggs, meat and fish 18
 86 fisadi, chaaval 20
 13 percent, wheat 7
 6 fisadi or anaaj 14
 35 percent became expensive
 taaja aankadon par apni pratikriya main pradhanmantri kii aarthik salaahkaar samiti ke adhyaksh si
 Rangarajan said that the depreciation in the rupee has increased inflationary pressure
 rangarajan ne haalanki kaha ki monsoon behatar rahane ke kaaran aane vaale dinon main mahangaai main kami aegi
 He said that the inflation rate by the end of the business year is 5
 5 fisadi par aa jaaegi
 Revised inflation based on Wholesale Price Index for the month of June 5
 16 fisadi kar diya gaya, jise pehle 4
 86 per cent
 agast main eendhan, bijli or praathmik vastuon main bhi mahangaai kaaphi badi
 Inflation in primary items 11
 72 fisadi or eendhan tathaa bijli kii mahangaai 11
 Grew by 34 percent
 tippaniyan Chandrajeet Banerjee, director general of Confederation of Indian Industry, said, "the rise in inflation and especially the sharp rise in food prices suggests a need to remove supply bottlenecks
" " unhone kaha ki mahangaai badhane ke baavjood rigerv bank ko dar main katautee se peeche nahin hatana chahie
 General Secretary of Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) A
 didaar singh ne dar main katautee par jor dete hue kaha, "mahangaai dar ko kam rakhana praathamikta honi chahie, lekin yah jaruri he ki ham niveshkon main aashaa kaa sanchaar karen or ucch vikaas ke liye kaam karen
 " vaanijya or udyog mantralay dwaara jari aankadon ke mutabik thok mulya suchakank par aadhaarit mahangaai dar agast main badhkar 6
 10 percent, which was 5 in July
 79 fisadi thi
 This rate 8 in the same period last year
 01 fisadi thi
 Food inflation rose to 18 in August
 18 fisadi rahi, jo ek saal pehle samaan avadhi main 9
 Was 34 percent
 is saal july main yah dar 11
 Was 9 percent
 is dauraan subjiyon kii keemat badhkar lagbhag do guni ho gai
 Onion meanwhile 244
 62 fisadi mahangaa ho gaya
 Eggs, meat and fish 18
 86 fisadi, chaaval 20
 13 percent, wheat 7
 6 fisadi or anaaj 14
 35 percent became expensive
 taaja aankadon par apni pratikriya main pradhanmantri kii aarthik salaahkaar samiti ke adhyaksh si
 Rangarajan said that the depreciation in the rupee has increased inflationary pressure
 rangarajan ne haalanki kaha ki monsoon behatar rahane ke kaaran aane vaale dinon main mahangaai main kami aegi
 He said that the inflation rate by the end of the business year is 5
 5 fisadi par aa jaaegi
 Revised inflation based on Wholesale Price Index for the month of June 5
 16 fisadi kar diya gaya, jise pehle 4
 86 per cent
 agast main eendhan, bijli or praathmik vastuon main bhi mahangaai kaaphi badi
 Inflation in primary items 11
 72 fisadi or eendhan tathaa bijli kii mahangaai 11
 Grew by 34 percent
 tippaniyan Chandrajeet Banerjee, director general of Confederation of Indian Industry, said, "the rise in inflation and especially the sharp rise in food prices suggests a need to remove supply bottlenecks
" " unhone kaha ki mahangaai badhane ke baavjood rigerv bank ko dar main katautee se peeche nahin hatana chahie
 General Secretary of Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) A
 didaar singh ne dar main katautee par jor dete hue kaha, "mahangaai dar ko kam rakhana praathamikta honi chahie, lekin yah jaruri he ki ham niveshkon main aashaa kaa sanchaar karen or ucch vikaas ke liye kaam karen
 " agast main khaadya mahangaai dar badhkar 18
 18 per cent, compared to 9 in the same period a year ago
 34 fisadi thi
 In July this year, the rate 11
 9 fisadi thi
 During this period, the price of vegetables increased almost two times
 pyaaj is bich 244
 62 percent became expensive
 andey, maance or machhliyaan 18
 86 percent, rice 20
 13 fisadi, gehun 7
 6 percent and grain 14
 35 fisadi mahangaa ho gaye
 In his response to the latest figures, Chairman of Prime Minister's Economic Advisory Committee C
 rangarajan ne kaha ki rupee main avamulyan se mahangaai kaa dabaav badha he
 Rangarajan, however, said that inflation will come down in the coming days due to better monsoon
 unhone kaha ki kaarobaari saal kii samaapti tak mahangaai dar 5
 Will come to 5 percent
 june maheene ke liye thok mulya suchakank par aadhaarit mahangaai dar ko sanshodhit kar 5
 16 per cent, which was earlier 4
 86 fisadi par rakhaa gaya tha
 In August, inflation in fuel, electricity and primary articles also increased significantly
 praathmik vastuon main mahangaai 11
 72 percent and fuel and electricity inflation 11
 34 fisadi badi
 The comments bhartiya udyog parisangh ke mahanideshak chandrajit banerjee ne kaha, "mahangaai main teji or khaskar khaadya keemton main teji se aapurti baadhaon ko dur kiye jane kii jarurat kaa pataa chalata he
 "he said that despite rising inflation, the Reserve Bank should not back down from rate cuts
 federation of indian chambar of commers and industry (fikki) ke mahasachiv e
 Emphasizing the rate cut, Didar Singh said, "keeping inflation down should be a priority, but it is imperative that we instill hope in investors and work for high growth
 " During this period, the price of vegetables increased almost two times
 pyaaj is bich 244
 62 percent became expensive
 andey, maance or machhliyaan 18
 86 percent, rice 20
 13 fisadi, gehun 7
 6 percent and grain 14
 35 fisadi mahangaa ho gaye
 In his response to the latest figures, Chairman of Prime Minister's Economic Advisory Committee C
 rangarajan ne kaha ki rupee main avamulyan se mahangaai kaa dabaav badha he
 Rangarajan, however, said that inflation will come down in the coming days due to better monsoon
 unhone kaha ki kaarobaari saal kii samaapti tak mahangaai dar 5
 Will come to 5 percent
 june maheene ke liye thok mulya suchakank par aadhaarit mahangaai dar ko sanshodhit kar 5
 16 per cent, which was earlier 4
 86 fisadi par rakhaa gaya tha
 In August, inflation in fuel, electricity and primary articles also increased significantly
 praathmik vastuon main mahangaai 11
 72 percent and fuel and electricity inflation 11
 34 fisadi badi
 The comments bhartiya udyog parisangh ke mahanideshak chandrajit banerjee ne kaha, "mahangaai main teji or khaskar khaadya keemton main teji se aapurti baadhaon ko dur kiye jane kii jarurat kaa pataa chalata he
 "he said that despite rising inflation, the Reserve Bank should not back down from rate cuts
 federation of indian chambar of commers and industry (fikki) ke mahasachiv e
 Emphasizing the rate cut, Didar Singh said, "keeping inflation down should be a priority, but it is imperative that we instill hope in investors and work for high growth
 " Eggs, meat and fish 18
 86 fisadi, chaaval 20
 13 percent, wheat 7
 6 fisadi or anaaj 14
 35 percent became expensive
 taaja aankadon par apni pratikriya main pradhanmantri kii aarthik salaahkaar samiti ke adhyaksh si
 Rangarajan said that the depreciation in the rupee has increased inflationary pressure
 rangarajan ne haalanki kaha ki monsoon behatar rahane ke kaaran aane vaale dinon main mahangaai main kami aegi
 He said that the inflation rate by the end of the business year is 5
 5 fisadi par aa jaaegi
 Revised inflation based on Wholesale Price Index for the month of June 5
 16 fisadi kar diya gaya, jise pehle 4
 86 per cent
 agast main eendhan, bijli or praathmik vastuon main bhi mahangaai kaaphi badi
 Inflation in primary items 11
 72 fisadi or eendhan tathaa bijli kii mahangaai 11
 Grew by 34 percent
 tippaniyan Chandrajeet Banerjee, director general of Confederation of Indian Industry, said, "the rise in inflation and especially the sharp rise in food prices suggests a need to remove supply bottlenecks
" " unhone kaha ki mahangaai badhane ke baavjood rigerv bank ko dar main katautee se peeche nahin hatana chahie
 General Secretary of Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) A
 didaar singh ne dar main katautee par jor dete hue kaha, "mahangaai dar ko kam rakhana praathamikta honi chahie, lekin yah jaruri he ki ham niveshkon main aashaa kaa sanchaar karen or ucch vikaas ke liye kaam karen
 " taaja aankadon par apni pratikriya main pradhanmantri kii aarthik salaahkaar samiti ke adhyaksh si
 Rangarajan said that the depreciation in the rupee has increased inflationary pressure
 rangarajan ne haalanki kaha ki monsoon behatar rahane ke kaaran aane vaale dinon main mahangaai main kami aegi
 He said that the inflation rate by the end of the business year is 5
 5 fisadi par aa jaaegi
 Revised inflation based on Wholesale Price Index for the month of June 5
 16 fisadi kar diya gaya, jise pehle 4
 86 per cent
 agast main eendhan, bijli or praathmik vastuon main bhi mahangaai kaaphi badi
 Inflation in primary items 11
 72 fisadi or eendhan tathaa bijli kii mahangaai 11
 Grew by 34 percent
 tippaniyan Chandrajeet Banerjee, director general of Confederation of Indian Industry, said, "the rise in inflation and especially the sharp rise in food prices suggests a need to remove supply bottlenecks 
" " unhone kaha ki mahangaai badhane ke baavjood rigerv bank ko dar main katautee se peeche nahin hatana chahie
 General Secretary of Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) A
 didaar singh ne dar main katautee par jor dete hue kaha, "mahangaai dar ko kam rakhana praathamikta honi chahie, lekin yah jaruri he ki ham niveshkon main aashaa kaa sanchaar karen or ucch vikaas ke liye kaam karen
 " rangarajan ne haalanki kaha ki monsoon behatar rahane ke kaaran aane vaale dinon main mahangaai main kami aegi
 He said that the inflation rate by the end of the business year is 5
 5 fisadi par aa jaaegi
 Revised inflation based on Wholesale Price Index for the month of June 5
 16 fisadi kar diya gaya, jise pehle 4
 86 per cent
 agast main eendhan, bijli or praathmik vastuon main bhi mahangaai kaaphi badi
 Inflation in primary items 11
 72 fisadi or eendhan tathaa bijli kii mahangaai 11
 Grew by 34 percent
 tippaniyan Chandrajeet Banerjee, director general of Confederation of Indian Industry, said, "the rise in inflation and especially the sharp rise in food prices suggests a need to remove supply bottlenecks
" " unhone kaha ki mahangaai badhane ke baavjood rigerv bank ko dar main katautee se peeche nahin hatana chahie
 General Secretary of Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) A
 didaar singh ne dar main katautee par jor dete hue kaha, "mahangaai dar ko kam rakhana praathamikta honi chahie, lekin yah jaruri he ki ham niveshkon main aashaa kaa sanchaar karen or ucch vikaas ke liye kaam karen
 " june maheene ke liye thok mulya suchakank par aadhaarit mahangaai dar ko sanshodhit kar 5
 16 per cent, which was earlier 4
 86 fisadi par rakhaa gaya tha
 In August, inflation in fuel, electricity and primary articles also increased significantly
 praathmik vastuon main mahangaai 11
 72 percent and fuel and electricity inflation 11
 34 fisadi badi
 The comments bhartiya udyog parisangh ke mahanideshak chandrajit banerjee ne kaha, "mahangaai main teji or khaskar khaadya keemton main teji se aapurti baadhaon ko dur kiye jane kii jarurat kaa pataa chalata he
 "he said that despite rising inflation, the Reserve Bank should not back down from rate cuts
 federation of indian chambar of commers and industry (fikki) ke mahasachiv e
 Emphasizing the rate cut, Didar Singh said, "keeping inflation down should be a priority, but it is imperative that we instill hope in investors and work for high growth
 " In August, inflation in fuel, electricity and primary articles also increased significantly
 praathmik vastuon main mahangaai 11
 72 percent and fuel and electricity inflation 11
 34 fisadi badi
 The comments bhartiya udyog parisangh ke mahanideshak chandrajit banerjee ne kaha, "mahangaai main teji or khaskar khaadya keemton main teji se aapurti baadhaon ko dur kiye jane kii jarurat kaa pataa chalata he
 "he said that despite rising inflation, the Reserve Bank should not back down from rate cuts
 federation of indian chambar of commers and industry (fikki) ke mahasachiv e
 Emphasizing the rate cut, Didar Singh said, "keeping inflation down should be a priority, but it is imperative that we instill hope in investors and work for high growth
 " Chandrajeet Banerjee, director general of Confederation of Indian Industry, said, "the rise in inflation and especially the sharp rise in food prices suggests a need to remove supply bottlenecks
" " unhone kaha ki mahangaai badhane ke baavjood rigerv bank ko dar main katautee se peeche nahin hatana chahie
 General Secretary of Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) A
 didaar singh ne dar main katautee par jor dete hue kaha, "mahangaai dar ko kam rakhana praathamikta honi chahie, lekin yah jaruri he ki ham niveshkon main aashaa kaa sanchaar karen or ucch vikaas ke liye kaam karen
 " federation of indian chambar of commers and industry (fikki) ke mahasachiv e
 Emphasizing the rate cut, Didar Singh said, "keeping inflation down should be a priority, but it is imperative that we instill hope in investors and work for high growth
 " a website prepared in Britain in connection with the last days of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose released details of how the remains of the freedom fighter were brought to a temple in Tokyo and are preserved there
 website ne ise saboot bataaya he
 The website has given details of his remains being brought from Taipei to the Renkoji Temple in the Japanese capital
 is website ne pehle bataaya tha ki 18 agast, 1945 ko vimaan durghatana ke falswaroop netaji kii mrityu ho gayi thi
 He claims that on 23 August 1945, the next day of Netaji's funeral in Taipei, his assistant Colonel Habibur Rahman, Japanese Army Major Nagatomo and Japanese interpreter Juichi Nakamura took his remains to be placed in Nishi Honganji, Taiwan's largest temple
 
 jaanch samiti kii report main he zikravarsh 1956 main shahanvaj khan kii aguwai valinetaji jaanch samitine likhaa ki is taiwani sthal par antim sanskaar kiya gaya
 On September 5, 1945, Colonel Rahman and Lieutenant Colonel t Sakai, Major Nakamia and Sub Lieutenant t Hayashida boarded the plane in Taipei carrying the remains
 ye avshesh kapade main lipte the or lakdi ke bakse main rakhe the
 Colonel Rahman and Lieutenant Colonel t Sakai survived the plane crash
 sab leftinent haishida ne in avshesh ko fakuoko le jane ke dauraan japani parampara ke anusaar unhen gale se latakaaya tha
 After that Colonel Rahman and Major Nakamia flew by plane to Tokyo, while Lieutenant Hayashida went to Tokyo by train with the remains
 unke saath teen sainik the
 The remains were immediately taken to the Japanese military Imperial General headquarters
 agali subah sainya maamalon ke prabhag ke pramukh leftinent taakakura ne japan main indian independent lig ke adhyaksh ramaamurti ko avshesh lene ke liye phone kiya
 100 people joined the procession S
 Minister in the Provisional Government of Free India
 e
 Iyer came with Ramamurthy
 ayyar is dukhad khabar ko sunakar dakshin purv asia se tokyo aae
 According to Murthy, Iyer and he came to her house, which was also the headquarters of the Indian Independence League in those days
 vahaan par ayyar ne subhaashachandr bose kii mrityu ko lekar karnal rahamaan se kai sawaal kiye jiskaa unhone upyukt jawaab diya
 a few days later, on September 18, 1945, his remains were taken with procession to the Rekonji Temple
 is juluus main kareeb 100 log shaamil hue
 After proper rites, Bose's colleagues requested the chief priest of the temple to preserve the remains in a proper manner until they were handed over to the appropriate authorities
 camel hasan ne casting couch ko lekar chal rahe vivaad or saroj khan ke haalia bayaan ke bare main baat karte hue kaha ''har ek mahila ko naa kehane kaa haq he
 He has every right to oppose the casting couch spread in the film industry
 ''camel ne mangalvaar ko apane nivas sthaan ke baahar lagi gram panchayat kii baithak ke dauraan ek reporter dwaara puche gaye sawaal ke jawaab main aisa kaha
 At the same time, he also said, "no woman has the right to speak in favor of this and to degrade the rights of our sisters and daughters working in the industry
 ''camel hasan kii beti ko mili ek or hindi film, shuru hui shootingajab unase renuka choudhary ke us bayaan ke bare main pratikriya maangi gai jisamen renuka ne sadan ke andar chal rahi casting couch ke virodh main aawaaj uthaai thi camel ne kaha ki ''ye politics ke andar kaa ek or karpshan he
 We will also have to make meaningful efforts to eradicate it
 ''darasal, is vivaad ne phir se tool tab pakadaa jab haal hi main saroj khan ne kaha tha ki ''sab to baba aadam ke jamaane se chalaa aa rahaa he
 Every girl tries to clean their hands
 industry main ladki ko rape karke chhod nahin dete, roji-roti bhi dete hai
 Therefore, one should not fall behind the film industry alone
 vaise bhi ye sari chijen ladki ke upar he ki wo kya karnaa chaahati he
 "kaveri controversy: Rajinikanth, who appeared with Kamal Haasan, also appealed to Dhoni's team that Saroj later apologized for his statement during a conversation with Aaj Tak
" I'm sorry
 main maafee maangati hum
 Let me tell you that due to the statement of Mr
 Reddy, a South Indian actress, there is a lot of debate in the casting couch in the Indian film industry
 '' It is always recommended to keep the environment around your house green and pure by planting saplings
 alovera, spidar plant jaise paudhe hawa ko shuddh karte hai
 Harpreet Ahluwalia, founder and expert of 'earthly Creations', a company selling garden-related products, has described six plants that purify the surrounding environment and air: - alovera (ghrit kumari) carbon dioxide or carbon monooxide ko avashoshit kar letaa he
 It is one of the beneficial plants to be planted at home
 yah oxigen ke str ko badhaata he
 It is believed that one aloe vera plant is equivalent to nine air purifiers
 yah har mausam or mitti main aasaani se lag jaataa he
 - The plant of bamboo (bamboo) does not even require sufficient sunlight and it grows easily even when placed in the interior of the house like rooms
 hawa ko shuddh karne saath hi yah ghar main saubhaahgya bhi laata he
 It also keeps the environment germ free
 kam pani main bhi aasaani se lag jane vaala yah paudha najdiki paudhon ke dukaanon main aasaani se mil jaataa he
 - The ivy plant starts purifying the air within six hours of its planting
 yah hawa main maujuud avshisht kanon ko 58 pratishat or hanikaarak vishakt kanon ko 60 pratishat tak dur kar detaa he
 - Spider plant is well known for photosynthesis even in low sunlight
 yah carbon monooxide, sterine or gasoline ko hataakar hawa ko shuddh karata he, jisase bachche or vayask aaraam se saans le sakate hai
 The comments - sneke paudha bhi suraj kii kam roshni main acchhee tarah se prakaash sanshleshan kar saktaa he
 It is perfectly suited to be kept in the bedroom, as it emits oxygen even at night
 - pis lily kaa paudha hawa main maujuud hanikaarak kanon or rogaanuon ko dur karke hawa shuddh karata he
 Three to four plants of Peace Lily are sufficient and effective to purify the air around the house and surroundings
 - alovera (ghrit kumari) carbon dioxide or carbon monooxide ko avashoshit kar letaa he
 It is one of the beneficial plants to be planted at home
 yah oxigen ke str ko badhaata he
 It is believed that one aloe vera plant is equivalent to nine air purifiers
 yah har mausam or mitti main aasaani se lag jaataa he
 - The plant of bamboo (bamboo) does not even require sufficient sunlight and it grows easily even when placed in the interior of the house like rooms
 hawa ko shuddh karne saath hi yah ghar main saubhaahgya bhi laata he
 It also keeps the environment germ free
 kam pani main bhi aasaani se lag jane vaala yah paudha najdiki paudhon ke dukaanon main aasaani se mil jaataa he
 - The ivy plant starts purifying the air within six hours of its planting
 yah hawa main maujuud avshisht kanon ko 58 pratishat or hanikaarak vishakt kanon ko 60 pratishat tak dur kar detaa he
 - Spider plant is well known for photosynthesis even in low sunlight
 yah carbon monooxide, sterine or gasoline ko hataakar hawa ko shuddh karata he, jisase bachche or vayask aaraam se saans le sakate hai
 The comments - sneke paudha bhi suraj kii kam roshni main acchhee tarah se prakaash sanshleshan kar saktaa he
 It is perfectly suited to be kept in the bedroom, as it emits oxygen even at night
 - pis lily kaa paudha hawa main maujuud hanikaarak kanon or rogaanuon ko dur karke hawa shuddh karata he
 Three to four plants of Peace Lily are sufficient and effective to purify the air around the house and surroundings
 - bambu (bans) ke paudhe ko paryaapt suraj kii roshni kii bhi jarurat nahin hoti or yah ghar ke andruni bhaagon jaise kamaron aadi main rakhe jane par bhi aasaani se viksit hota he
 Besides purifying the air, it also brings good luck in the house
 yah vaataavaran ko rogaanu mukt bhi rakhata he
 Easy to plant even in low water, this plant is easily found in nearby plant shops
 - ivi paudha apane ropan ke chah ghante ke bheetar hi hawa ko shuddh karnaa shuru kar detaa he
 It removes residual particles present in the air by 58 percent and harmful toxic particles by 60 percent
 - spidar paudha kam dhoop main bhi achche se prakaash sanshleshan karne ke liye janaa jaataa he
 It purifies the air by removing carbon monoxide, stearin and gasoline, allowing children and adults to breathe comfortably
 tippaniyan - Snake plant can also photosynthesize well under low sunlight
 shayankaksh main rakhe jane ke liye yah bilkul upyukt he, kyonki yah raat main bhi oxigen utsarjit karata he
 - The plant of Peace Lily purifies the air by removing harmful particles and microbes present in the air
 ghar va aasapaas kii hawa ko shuddh karne ke liye pis lily ke teen se chaar paudhe paryaapt or prabhavi hai
 - The ivy plant starts purifying the air within six hours of its planting
 yah hawa main maujuud avshisht kanon ko 58 pratishat or hanikaarak vishakt kanon ko 60 pratishat tak dur kar detaa he
 - Spider plant is well known for photosynthesis even in low sunlight
 yah carbon monooxide, sterine or gasoline ko hataakar hawa ko shuddh karata he, jisase bachche or vayask aaraam se saans le sakate hai
 The comments - sneke paudha bhi suraj kii kam roshni main acchhee tarah se prakaash sanshleshan kar saktaa he
 It is perfectly suited to be kept in the bedroom, as it emits oxygen even at night
 - pis lily kaa paudha hawa main maujuud hanikaarak kanon or rogaanuon ko dur karke hawa shuddh karata he
 Three to four plants of Peace Lily are sufficient and effective to purify the air around the house and surroundings
 - spidar paudha kam dhoop main bhi achche se prakaash sanshleshan karne ke liye janaa jaataa he
 It purifies the air by removing carbon monoxide, stearin and gasoline, allowing children and adults to breathe comfortably
 tippaniyan - Snake plant can also photosynthesize well under low sunlight
 shayankaksh main rakhe jane ke liye yah bilkul upyukt he, kyonki yah raat main bhi oxigen utsarjit karata he
 - The plant of Peace Lily purifies the air by removing harmful particles and microbes present in the air
 ghar va aasapaas kii hawa ko shuddh karne ke liye pis lily ke teen se chaar paudhe paryaapt or prabhavi hai
 - Snake plant can also photosynthesize well under low sunlight
 shayankaksh main rakhe jane ke liye yah bilkul upyukt he, kyonki yah raat main bhi oxigen utsarjit karata he
 - The plant of Peace Lily purifies the air by removing harmful particles and microbes present in the air
 ghar va aasapaas kii hawa ko shuddh karne ke liye pis lily ke teen se chaar paudhe paryaapt or prabhavi hai
 - The plant of Peace Lily purifies the air by removing harmful particles and microbes present in the air
 ghar va aasapaas kii hawa ko shuddh karne ke liye pis lily ke teen se chaar paudhe paryaapt or prabhavi hai
 The ruling Trinamool Congress and BJP are allegedly involved in a proxy fight through investigative agencies under their jurisdiction
 june ke madhya main jab sibiai ke special diarector rakesh asthana ne kolkata ke sibiai afasaron se yah kaha ki ve sarada, narda or roj vaili ghotaalon ke maamle main final chargeshit daakhil karen, to yah saaf lag rahaa tha ki 2019 ke loksabhaa chunaavon se pehle jaanch tej kar di gai he
 It is said that such witnesses are being collected, which can provide such strong clues to help in framing charges against senior leaders of the Trinamool Congress
 sibiai ne sarada ghotaale ke aaropee tiemasi saansad kunal ghosh se hasil 91 pej ke ek patr or dastavejon ko shaamil kiya
 a local industrialist once close to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was questioned about the sale of Mamta's paintings and several Kolkata businessmen such as Saradha Group Chairman Sudipta Sen and Rose Valley's Gautam Kundu
 kaha ja rahaa he ki tiemasi ke purv netaa mukul roy ne jaanch adhikariyon ko bataaya he ki painting kii bikri se hasil raashi ko ek khaas bank acount main rakhaa gaya he, jiskaa niyantran party netaaon kii ek kor team ke paas he
 TMC leaders believe that this is a part of the bjp's preparations for the 2019 general election, which wants to raise a controversy around Mamata
 tiemasi ke ek saansad poochhate hai, ''aapako kya lagata he, kendriya jaanch agenciyaan sarada cese main mukul roy ko gavaah kyon bananaa chaahati hai?'' chitfund ghotaale main unka naam kahin nahin he, lekin sibiai ne roy se kai dfa sawaal kiye hai, kyonki ve mukhyamantri ke purv kareebi bharosemand or tiemasi ke mahasachiv rahe hai
 So far Ghosh is the only person to have directly named Mamta Banerjee in the Saradha scam
 saal 2013 main apni girakratari se pehle unhone fasebuk par ek post main likhaa tha ki sarada ke chairman ne mamata ko pradhanmantri banane main madad karne ke liye ek media house khadaa kiya tha
 In a recently leaked audio recording, which allegedly involves a phone conversation between Roy and BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya, Roy is giving the names of the persons, including the police officers, who the Central investigating agencies can interrogate
 roy ne iske baad 'mamata banerjee kii police' par aarope lagaaya ki vah avaidh tareeke se unki phone tanping karvaa rahi he
 Soon after this audio clip went viral on social media, CBI summoned several police officers, who are part of the Mamata government-led SIT to investigate the Saradha scam
 sibiai kaa aarope he ki ye adhikari, jin par pehle se hi is jaanch main sahyog na karne kaa aarope he, sabooton se chhedchhad yaa use nasht kar sakate hai
 While central investigative agencies are trying to corner TMC leaders, state BJP vice-president Jai Prakash Majumdar says the state police is working to defame and arrest BJP supporters
 aresas ke varisht padaadhikari jishnu basu ne kaha ki haal ke panchayat chunaavon se pehle bhaajapa or sangh ke kareeb 750 samarthakon ko hiraasat main le liya gaya
 According to him, a case was registered against hundreds of RSS workers under the Arms Act, on the allegation that they had demonstrated weapons during Ramnavami
 dilip ghosh, shiv prakaash or roopa ganguli jaise varisht netaaon par bhi maamle darj kiye gaye hai
 bjp's national joint secretary Prakash and RSS leader Vidyut Mukherjee have been accused of molestation and rape by a woman
 usne aresas ke ek or netaa amalendu chattopadhyaay ke khilaaf dhokhadhadi or vishwasghaat kaa aarope lagaaya he
 Majumdar, accused in the fake job scam, says, "trapping our leaders in socially embarrassing cases is a well-planned conspiracy by TMC
" timasi netaaon kaa kahana he ki bhaajapa 2019 ke aam chunaav se pehle mamata se jude vivaad khadey karne kii sajeesh kar rahi he
 *** bharat ke bich badhati asahajata ke pariprekshya main bharat ne kaha he ki vah china kii sarkaar ko aashwast karne kaa prayaas kar rahaa he ki isaki pragati china ke liye hanikaarak nahin he or samprabhutaa se jude maamalon main donon deshon ko samvedansheel hona chahie
 Foreign Secretary S
 jaishankar ne saarc main baadha daalane ke liye pakistan kii aalochana karte hue kaha ki ek sadsy desh kii asuraksha ke kaaran kshetreey samooh aprabhavi ban gaya he
 Describing terrorism as the most serious threat to international security, he lamented the lack of coordination in dealing with the threat globally and said that the United Nations needs to be reformed so that it can deal with major challenges effectively
 raisina sammelan ko sambodhit karte hue videsh sachiv es
 Jaishankar raised strong objections to the china-pakistan economic circuit that passes through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir
 unhone kaha ki isko lekar bharat kii naaraazgi par china ko vichaar karnaa chahie
 He said, China is a country which is very sensitive to its sovereignty
 isliye ham ummid kar sakate hai ki unhen dusron kii samprabhutaa ko bhi samajhnaa chahie
 The Foreign Secretary's statement comes a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's statement, in which the Prime Minister said that both sides should show sensitivity and respect each other's main concerns and interests
 modi ne kaha tha ki sambhddha deshon kii samprabhutaa kaa sammaan kar hi kshetreey sampark maarg ko puraa kiya ja saktaa he or matbhed tathaa kalah se bachaa ja saktaa he
 Referring to Donald Trump's election to the presidency, the Foreign Secretary said that the relationship between America and Russia could change significantly, not seen since 1945, and its impact is difficult to predict
 is pariprekshya main unhone kaha ki america or rus donon deshon ke saath bharat ke sambandh pragati par hai or america-rus ke bich sambandhon main sudhaar bhartiya hit ke khilaaf nahin he
 On the agreement with pak-china not advising India in CPEC, Jaishankar said that relations are expanding, especially in areas of business and people-to-people contact, but they appear less effective due to differences on certain political issues
 jaishankar ne kaha, donon deshon ke liye yah mahatvapurn he ki samrik prakruti kii vaarta se peeche nahin haten yaa paraspar sahyog kii patibaddhta se peeche nahin haten
 Answering a question on the China Pakistan Economic Circuit (CPEC), he said that the two countries should show sensitivity to each other's sovereignty
 jaishankar ne kaha ki sipiisi us jagah se gujarata he jise ham pakistan adhikrut kashmir kehete hai jo bharat kaa kshetra he or jis par pakistan ne avaidh rup se kabja kar rakhaa he
 He said that the project was started without India's advice and hence the sensitivity and concerns about it are natural
 china ke saath bharat ke sambandhon ke bare main unhone kaha ki 1945 ke baad se donon deshon ke bich sambandhon main kaaphi pragati hui he
 Team India's brilliant batting against Bangladesh in Hyderabad Test has made not only the cricket lovers but also the former cricketers of the country happy
 team india ke sadsy rahe mohammad caff (mohammad Kaif) ne match main doharaa shatak jamaane vaale viraat kohli (virat Kohli) kii jamkar tarif kii
 In the way Virat was batting in the match, Kaif had also expressed an expectation, unfortunately his hopes could not be fulfilled due to the dismissal of Team India's captain at 204
 team india ke dhurandhar ballebaaj rahe virendra sahvaag (virender Sehwag) ne bhi twitor par apana ek photo post kar mushafikur rahim kii bangladeshi team par tanj ksaa he
 Team India took the news of the Bangladeshi bowlers in the first innings in Hyderabad and declared the innings by scoring 687 runs for 6 wickets
 is vishaal score main viraat kohli ke dohare shatak ke alaava murali vijay or wicketiper batsman riddhimaan saaha ke shatak shaamil rahe
 Cheteshwar Pujara scored 83 and Ravindra Jadeja scored 60 not out
 bhartiya ballebaajon main keval lokesh rahul (2) or ravichandran aswin (34) hi 50 ran se kam ke score par out hue
 Praising Virat Kohli's batting, Mohammad Kaif tweeted, "what a player, what a great player Virat Kohli is, not a word to say
" 
 
 ' isse pehle shuukravaar ko hi ek anya twit main caff ne viraat se tihare shatak kii ummid lagaai thi
 He tweeted, 'till December 2016, there were only two Indians (twice Sehwag) who had scored triple centuries in the history of 84 years of Test cricket
 kohli jis tarah se ballebaaji kar rahe hai (kohli is twit ke samay naabad the), usase lagata he ki ham lagaataar do test main do tihare shatak dekhenge
 In fact, Kaif was expecting a triple century with Virat seeing him bat in great style
 hyderabad test ke thik pehle england ke khilaaf chennai main hue test main team india ke yuva ballebaaj karun nair ne tihara shatak jamaaya tha
 What a player, what a wonderful player
 Virat Kohi 
 Speechless
 # indvban - Mohammad Kaif (@mohammadkaif) February 10, 2017till December 2016, we had two 300's by an Indian (both Sehwag) in 84 yrs of test cricket
 Might have 2 in 2 tests,the way Kohli is going
 # indvban — Mohammad Kaif (@mohammadkaif) February 10, 2017 caff ne jahaan kohli kii ballebaaji kii tarifon ke pul baandhe, vahiin 'twit master' virendra sahvaag ne bangladesh team ke str par paroksh sawaal uthaaya
 Sehwag posted a photo in his tweet in which he was seen taking a 'sunbath'
 viru ne likhaa, 'ghar main sanbath kaa majaa le rahaa hum, kaaphi kuch usee tarah jis tarah bhartiya ballebaaj, bangladesh kii gendbaaji kaa majaa le rahe hai
 # vitamind Tank Full
 ' Enjoying Sunbath at home, much like the Indian batsmen have enjoyed the Bangladeshi bowling
 # vitamind Tanki full 
 pic
 twitter
 com / dcmcnrnx6s — Virender Sehwag (@virendersehwag) February 10, 2017 In this tweet, Virender Sehwag's direct reference was to the huge score made by the Indian batsmen in the first innings and to the Bangladesh bowlers who looked 'forced'
 googletag
 cmd
 push(function() { googletag
 display ('adslotnativevideo'); }); team india ne hyderabad main pehali pari main bangladeshi gendbaajon kii jamkar khabar lee or 6 wicket par 687 ran banaakar pari ghoshit kii
 In this huge score, apart from Virat Kohli's double century, Murali Vijay and wicketkeeper batsman Wriddhiman Saha's century included
 cheteshwar pujaara ne 83 or rabindra jadeja ne naabad 60 ran banaae
 Among the Indian batsmen, only Lokesh Rahul (2) and Ravichandran Ashwin (34) were dismissed for less than 50 runs
 viraat kohli kii ballebaaji kii prashansa karte hue mohammad caff ne twit kiya, 'kya khilaadi he, kitna shandaar khilaadi he viraat kohli, kehane ke liye shabd nahin
 
 
 Earlier, in another tweet on Friday itself, Kaif had expected a triple century from Virat
 unhone twit kiya tha, 'disambar 2016 tak do bhartiya (do baar sahvaag) hi aise the jinhone 84 saal ke test cricket ke itihaas main tihare shatak lagaae the
 The way Kohli is batting (kohli was unbeaten at the time of this tweet), it seems that we will see two triple centuries in two consecutive Tests
 ' darasal, viraat ko shandaar andaaj main ballebaaji karte dekhakar caff unase tripal centuri kii ummid lagaae hue the
 Karun Nair, the young batsman of Team India, scored a triple century in the Test in Chennai against England just before the Hyderabad Test
 What a player , what a wonderful player
 Virat Kohi
 Speechless
 # indvban — Mohammad Kaif (@mohammadkaif) February 10, 2017till Dec 2016,we had two 300's by an Indian (both Sehwag)in 84 yrs of test cricket
 Might have 2 in 2 tests, the way Kohli is going
 # indvban - Mohammad Kaif (@mohammadkaif) February 10, 2017 While Kaif tied the praises of Kohli's batting, 'tweet master' Virender Sehwag posed indirect questions at the Bangladesh team level
 sahvaag ne apane twit main ek photo post kiya jisamen ve 'sanbath' lete hue dikhaai de rahe the
 Viru wrote, 'I am enjoying the sunbath at home, in much the same way that Indian batsmen are enjoying the bowling of Bangladesh
 # vitamind tank phul
 ' Enjoying Sunbath at home,much like the Indian batsmen have enjoyed the Bangladeshi bowling
 # vitamind Tanki full
 pic
 twitter
 com / dcmcnrnx6s - Virender Sehwag (@virendersehwag) February 10, 2017 is twit main virendra sahvaag kaa sidhaa ishaara bhartiya ballebaajon kii ore se pehali pari main banaae gaye vishaal score or 'majaboor' dikhaai de rahe bangladeshi gendbaajon kii ore tha
 googletag
 cmd
 push (function () {googletag
 display('adslotnativevideo'); });what a player , what a wonderful player
 Virat Kohi
 Speechless
 # indvbantill Dec 2016, we had two 300's by an Indian (both Sehwag) in 84 yrs of test cricket
 Might have 2 in 2 tests,the way Kohli is going
 # indvbanenjoying Sunbath at home, much like the Indian batsmen have enjoyed the Bangladeshi bowling
 # vitamind Tanki full 
 pic
 twitter
 com / dcmcnrnx6s shaikshanik santhaan vellore institute of technology (viaiti) ne sabhi rajyon evam central board main awwal aane vaale chaatr-chaatraon ko ‘jivi skool deveopment program’ ke tahat apane santhaan main beatech course ke liye puure chaar saal tak puri fees maaf karne kii peshkash kii he
 The comments viaiti ke upaadhyaksh shankar vishvanathan ne bataaya, ‘‘central evam rajya board main awwal sthaan paane waalon ko ‘jivi skool deveopment program’ ke tahat hamaare santhaan main beatech course ke liye pravesh karne vaale kii puure chaar saal ke liye 100 pratishat tution fees maaf rahegi
 He added that in addition to this, 75 percent relaxation in tuition fees will also be given to those candidates who will get rank from one to 50 in VIT Engineering Entrance Examination (VITEE), while those who get rank 51 to 100 in tuition fees
 50 percent discount will be given and those who get rank from 101 to 1000 will get 25 percent discount in tuition fees
 vishvanathan ne yah bhi bataaya ki 12veen main rajya board skulon se jila str par awwal sthaan paane vaale ek chaatr evam ek chaatra ko bhi ‘stars skim’ ke tahat 100 pratishat fees main chhot dene ke saath-saath viaiti ke hostalon main free bordig evam loging di jaaegi, basharte ki vah viaitiii pariksha main shaamil hua ho
 VIT Vice President Shankar Vishwanathan said, "those who have topped the Central and State Board, 100% tuition fee will be waived for the entire four years for those who are admitted for btech course in our institute under 'GV School Development Program'
 
 ’’ unhone kaha ki iske alaava, un ummidavaaron ko bhi tution fees main 75 pratishat chhot di jaaegi, jo viaiti ejineering pravesh pariksha (viaitiii) main ek se 50 tak rank hasil karenge, jabaki 51 se 100 rank hasil karne waalon ko tution fees main 50 pratishat kii chhot milegi or 101 se 1000 tak rank paane waalon ko tution fees main 25 pratishat kii chhot milegi
 Vishwanathan also informed that a student and a student, who have topped the district level in the 12th from state board schools and also a student, have been given 100 percent fee exemption under 'STARS scheme' along with free boarding and lodging in VIT hostels
 Provided that he / she has appeared in the VITEEE examination
 vishvanathan ne yah bhi bataaya ki 12veen main rajya board skulon se jila str par awwal sthaan paane vaale ek chaatr evam ek chaatra ko bhi ‘stars skim’ ke tahat 100 pratishat fees main chhot dene ke saath-saath viaiti ke hostalon main free bordig evam loging di jaaegi, basharte ki vah viaitiii pariksha main shaamil hua ho
 Union Minister Kiran Rijiju said on Wednesday that the banning of 500 and 1000 rupee notes would lead to the closure of the 'printing press' in Pakistan, where counterfeit Indian notes are printed
 pradhanmantri narendra modi ko 'saahasik faisle' ke liye badhai dete hue rigiju ne kaha ki is kadam sebhrashtachar or kaledhanpar kaabo paaya ja sakegaa
 At the same time, the funding of terrorism and the practice of fake Indian currency will also be stopped
 rigiju ne kaha ki1,000 or 500 ke puraane noivaidh hone se karachi or peshawar main printing press band ho jaaegi
 According to Rijiju, forged notes had been a major headache for the security agencies till now
 pradhanmantri ne mangalvaar raat ko 1000 or 500 rupye ke noton ko avaidh kiye jane kaa elaan kar kaale dhan, jaali karency or bhrashtachar par karaara prahaar kiya
 Pakistan on Wednesday criticized the indo-us joint statement on cross-border terrorism, saying it ignored the main sources of tension and exacerbated an already 'tense situation'
 bayaan main pakistan se seemaa paar aatankwaad par roak lagane ko kaha gaya
 Pakistan's Foreign Ministry said in a statement that the meeting of US President Donald Trump and Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Washington was a missed opportunity to inspire India to change its policies in the face of peace in the region
 isamen kaha gaya ki sanyukt bayaan se dakshin asia kshetra main ranneetik sthirataa evam sthaayee shanti ke uddeshy ko hasil karne main bilkul madad nahin milegi
 The statement by the Pakistani Foreign Ministry said, "ignoring the major sources of tension and instability in the region has given rise to an already tense situation
" ' tippaniyan During Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to the US, the two countries pledged to strengthen cooperation against terrorist organizations such as jaish-e-mohammed, lashkar-e-taiba and d-company, and asked Pakistan to ensure that they use their land to other Do not allow for terrorist attacks against countries
 (hedline ke alaava, is khabar ko enditivi team ne sampadit nahin kiya he, yah syndicate feed se sidhe prakashit kii gai he
 ) pakistan ke videsh mantralay ne ek bayaan main kaha ki washington main america raashtrapati donald trump or pradhanmantri narendra modi kii baithak main bharat ko kshetra main shanti ke pratikul uski nitiyon ko badalane kii disha main prerit karne kaa mauka ganvaa diya gaya
 It said that the joint statement would not help in achieving the objective of strategic stability and lasting peace in the South Asia region
 pakistani videsh mantralay ke bayaan main kaha gaya, 'kshetra main tanaav evam asthirataa ke pramukh sroton par dhyaan naa dekar bayaan se pehle se hi tanaavpurn sthiti ko badhaava mila
 Comments pradhanmantri narendra modi kii america yatra ke dauraan donon deshon ne jaish e mohammad, lashkar e taiyaba or di-company jaise aatanki sanghathanon ke khilaaf sahyog majboot karne kaa pran liya tha or pakistan se yah sunishchit karne ko kaha tha ki vah apni jameen kaa istemaal duusare deshon ke khilaaf aatanki hamalon ke liye naa hone de
 (apart from the headline, this news has not been edited by the NDTV team, it has been published directly from the Syndicate feed
 ) It said that the joint statement would not help in achieving the objective of strategic stability and lasting peace in the South Asia region
 pakistani videsh mantralay ke bayaan main kaha gaya, 'kshetra main tanaav evam asthirataa ke pramukh sroton par dhyaan naa dekar bayaan se pehle se hi tanaavpurn sthiti ko badhaava mila
 Comments pradhanmantri narendra modi kii america yatra ke dauraan donon deshon ne jaish e mohammad, lashkar e taiyaba or di-company jaise aatanki sanghathanon ke khilaaf sahyog majboot karne kaa pran liya tha or pakistan se yah sunishchit karne ko kaha tha ki vah apni jameen kaa istemaal duusare deshon ke khilaaf aatanki hamalon ke liye naa hone de
 (apart from the headline, this news has not been edited by the NDTV team, it has been published directly from the Syndicate feed
 ) The statement by the Pakistani Foreign Ministry said, "ignoring the major sources of tension and instability in the region has given rise to an already tense situation
" ' tippaniyan During Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to the US, the two countries pledged to strengthen cooperation against terrorist organizations such as jaish-e-mohammed, lashkar-e-taiba and d-company, and asked Pakistan to ensure that they use their land to other Do not allow for terrorist attacks against countries
 (hedline ke alaava, is khabar ko enditivi team ne sampadit nahin kiya he, yah syndicate feed se sidhe prakashit kii gai he
 ) pradhanmantri narendra modi kii america yatra ke dauraan donon deshon ne jaish e mohammad, lashkar e taiyaba or di-company jaise aatanki sanghathanon ke khilaaf sahyog majboot karne kaa pran liya tha or pakistan se yah sunishchit karne ko kaha tha ki vah apni jameen kaa istemaal duusare deshon ke khilaaf aatanki hamalon ke liye naa hone de
 (apart from the headline, this news has not been edited by the NDTV team, it has been published directly from the Syndicate feed
 )(hedline ke alaava, is khabar ko enditivi team ne sampadit nahin kiya he, yah syndicate feed se sidhe prakashit kii gai he
 ) kya aap kisi vajah se udhaas yaa tanaav mahasoos kar rahe hai? agar haa to bina kuch soche-samajhe apane partner kaa haath tham len
 Actually, a study report claimed that feeling of pain is lessened by holding your partner's hand in stress or bad times
 ye study procedings of da neshnal academy of sciences (PNAS) jarnal main prakashit hui he
 The lead author of the study, Powell Goldstein, said, 'in modern life, we have become aware of many different ways of talking
 jisamen kuch physical interection bhi shaamil hai
 The importance and power of human touch is explained in this study
 'shodhakartaaon ne is study main 23 se lekar 32 saal tak ke aise hetrosexual kapal ko shaamil kiya he jo kam se kam ek saal se ek duusare ke saath rah rahe hai
 Researchers have measured their brainwave activity by measuring electroencephalography (EEG) in all the pairs
 jab patni kii maut ke 30 saal baad pati ko phir se mila pyaar!bataa den, study ke dauraan kapal ko teen hisson main baanta gaya
 In which some couple were seated together but they could not touch their partner
 doosraa, kuch kapal ko ek duusare kaa haath pakadakar baithne ke liye kaha gaya
 Third, some couples were seated in separate rooms
 iske baad sabhi mahilaon ko unki baanh ke upar halke dard kaa ehsaas karaayaa gaya
 The results found that women felt less pain when they felt pain by holding their partner's hand
 iske alaava nateezon main ye bhi saamne aayaa ki jo kapal dard mahasoos hone ke samay ek duusare ko tach nahin kar paae unke brain wave main kam aa gai
 Know, the use of digital device increases the love or tension in the relationship? Researchers say that the feeling of pain affects the mutual relationship of the couple
 lekin ek duusare ko tach karne ke baad unhen acha mahasoos hota he
 Researchers also said that you can show sympathy to your partner when they are in trouble
 lekin apane partner ko tach kiye bina aap unako khush karne main puri tarah se kaamyaab nahin ho paaenge
 Distances between former Samajwadi Party leader Amar Singh and Amitabh Bachchan have increased
 donon ne ek-duusare kii company se istipha de diya he jahaan amar singh ne amitabh bachchan kii company abi corp ke vaais chairman pad se istipha diya he vahiin amitabh ne amar singh kii company ke board se kinaaraa kar liya he
 Amar Singh says that due to lack of time, he was not handling AB Corp properly and hence it was considered appropriate to leave it
 unhone hi amitabh bachchan ke istife kii jaankaree di
 Amar said that Amitabh had attended only two-three meetings of EDCL in the last 10 years, although he also said that these things have no meaning
 bollywood adaakara karina kapur kaa kahana he ki unki jindagi ke daayre main sirf filmein nahin hai balki inase baahar bhi ek duniya he jise vah jiti hai
 The comments pichley saal oktober main adaakaar saf ali khan se shaadi rachaa chuki 32 saal kii karina kahati hai ki bollywood ke baahar bhi unke dost hai or vah nijee jindagi ko apni kaamkaaji duniya se alag rakhti hai
 Kareena says, "the important thing is to understand that we are for working in Bollywood
 main yahaan kisi se bhi zyada dosti nahin karti na hi main kisi kii jindagi main dakhal detii hum
 i have a life outside of films too
 ’’ Kareena, 32, who married actress Saif Ali Khan in October last year, says she has friends outside Bollywood as well and keeps her personal life separate from her working world
 karina kaa kahana he, ‘‘ahm baat yah samajhnaa he ki ham bollywood main kaam karne ke liye hai
 i do not make more friends with anyone here nor do i interfere in anyone's life
 filmon se baahar bhi meri jindagi he
 '' karina kaa kahana he, ‘‘ahm baat yah samajhnaa he ki ham bollywood main kaam karne ke liye hai
 i do not make more friends with anyone here nor do i interfere in anyone's life
 filmon se baahar bhi meri jindagi he
 '' saal 2013 main kedarnath dham main ai aapadaa ke baad tahas-nahas ho gai kedarghati ko yun to phir khadaa kar diya gaya he
 But now after 6 years, the main cause of the disaster in Kedarnath again, the Chorabadi lake is being claimed to be revived again
 haalanki dehradun sthit wadiya institute of himalayan jiyology ke vaigyanikon ne aise kisi jhil ke viksit hone kii baat se inkaar kiya he
 Scientists at the Wadia Institute reported that the Chorabadi lake has not developed
 unka kahana he ki jis jhil ke banane kii baat hamaare paas ai he wo kedarnath mandir se 5 kilometre upar he jabaki chorabadi jhil jisase kedarghati main vinaash hua tha wo mandir se 2 kilometre upar he
 But the thing to note is that whether the lake is built 2 kilometers above or 5 kilometers, the danger is really equally great
 jiske liye hamen sahi myne main abhi se kuch karne kii jarurat he
 What is the matter? In the past, doctors running a health camp in Kedarnath Dham, a lake in the glacier, about 5 km above Kedarnath Dham, claimed to be Chorabadi lake
 bataaya ja rahaa he ki chorabadi jhil ke hi hisse main duusari jhil aakaar le rahi he or yah jhil dhire-dhire badi hoti ja rahi he
 After which the information of this lake has been given to the scientists of Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology
 isaki jaankaree milane ke turant baad ection main ai vaigyanikon kii team jald hi is jhil kii jaanch karne ja rahi he
 Why there is a need to fear? a group of doctors giving healthcare in Kedarnath and the entire team of Six Sigma Star Healthcare Center are claiming to be the lake
 chorabadi jhil jise gandhi sarovar bhi kaha jaataa he, vah saal 2013 main ai vinaashkari aapadaa ke baad lagbhag gaayab ho gai thi or kshetra samtal bhoomi ke rup main dikhaai dene laga tha
 However, the doctor said that he found a lake located about five km from the Kedarnath temple which is again filled with water
 unhone jila prashasan ko suchit kiya he jiske baad rudraprayag jila prashasan ne dehradun sthit wadiya institute of himalayan jiyology ko alert kiya he
 When the lake appeared, according to the information, the team of doctors visited Chorabari lake on June 16 along with a team of state disaster response force, police and district administration, where they saw that the lake was again covered with water
 maujuuda samay me chorabadi jhil lagbhag 250 meter lambii or 150 meter chaudee bataai ja rahi he
 However, these lakes are filled with rain, melting snow and avalanche material
 saal 2013 kii aapadaa main jhil or isaki bhoomika kaa adhyayan karne vaale vaigyanikon ne daawa kiya tha ki jhil ko phir se punerjeevit nahin kiya jayega
 But the thing to note is that the lake which is formed is not a Chorabari lake
 chorabadi jhil mandir se maatr 2 kilometre kii duuri par sthit he, par sawaal ye bhi he ki jhil chaahe 2 kilometre kii duuri par ho yaa phir 5 kilometre kii duuri par, khatra to barkaraar he hi
 In such a situation, there is a great need to be serious on this issue because people have already paid the price of negligence by losing their loved ones
 wadiya institute of himalayan jiyology ke bhu-vaigyanik doctor deepi dobhaal ne bataaya ki kuch din pehle rudraprayag jila prashasan ne hamen ek jaankaree di thi, jiske tahat kuch log kedarnath se kareeb 5 kilometre upar gaye the jahaan glacier ke bich main ek jhil bane hone kii baat bataai gai he
 But the lake which is being described is not Chorabadi Lake because Chorabadi Lake is just 2 kilometers from Kedarnath
 lekin jis jhil ke bare main bataaya ja rahaa he wo jhil glacier ke bich main bani hui he
 It is 5 kilometers from Kedarnath
 vahiin duusari taraf pradesh main esadiaref kii kaman sambhaal rahe aiji sanjay gunjyaal ise maamuli baat maanakar chal rahe hai
 Also, the scientist of Wadia said that he has been working in Kedarnath for the last 10 years and there is no possibility of revival of Lake Chorabadi
 kyoki saal 2013 main ai kedarnath dham main aapadaa se chorabadi jhil puri tarah se tahas-nahas ho gai thi
 Now there is no question of reviving the Chorabari lake
 saath hi bataaya ki unhen lagata he ki yah kuch anya glacier se bani hui jhil he, iske liye wo maukey par jaakar hi is par tippanee kar paaenge
 The scientist said that when the glacier melts, small lakes are formed everywhere
 is saal glaciaron main zyada jhil banane ke asaar hai kyonki is baar bahut zyada barish or barfbaari hui he
 Due to this, the glaciers are melting and collecting small lakes there, but there is no danger from these lakes, but there is no such thing that the Chorabari is being reconstructed
 aapadaa ke baad jari kiye gaye report main pehle kii kah diya gaya tha ki chorbari jhil dobaaraa punerjeevit nahi ho sakati he
 There is no need for a name to create havoc, be it Chorabari Lake or any other lake, the way the water is taking the shape of a big lake is really an indication to take safety measures from now
 gauratlab he ki saal 2013 kii aapadaa main kedarnath main bade paimaane par vinaash ke liye chorabadi jhil kaa fatna mukhya kaaran mana gaya tha, kyonki mandakini ghati main baadh aane ke kaaran, malbe or boulder ke saath mishrit jhil ke pani ne shahar main vyapak vinaash kiya tha
 Former Delhi Law Minister Somnath Bharti, arrested in the harassment case of his wife, is again questioned by Delhi Police
 remand khatm hone par police ne somnath ko court main pesh kiya
 Before the remand of Somnath Bharti was over, the police put his wife in front and asked questions
 somnath se un thikaanon ke bare main poocha gaya, jahaan-jahaan ve giraftaar se bachane ke liye chhipate rahe the
 His remand ends on Sunday
 Somnath Bharti's three day police remand ends, to be produced before court todaypic
 twitter
 com / 0hmlepljrd— ANI (@ani_news)october 4, 2015somnath Bharti leaves for court, his three day police remand ends todaypic
 twitter
 com / obsg0wwrxz— ANI (@ani_news)october 4, 2015agra, mathura se dilli laae gaye somnathaisase pehle, dilli police somnath bharti ko shanivaar ko dilli waapas lekar ai thi
 The police took Somnath to several places in Agra and Mathura so that he could be confronted by those who gave him a hiding place
 gauratlab he ki supreme court ne AAP vidhayak ko antarim jamaanat dene se inkaar kar diya tha or unki police hiraasat teen din ke liye badha di thi
 The Rajya Sabha meeting was adjourned till 12 noon shortly after the commencement of the Rajya Sabha meeting on Monday due to an uproar by BJP mps seeking resignation of the Prime Minister over alleged corruption within the government and the Question Hour could not go on
 sadan kii baithak shuru hone par jaise hi sabhapati mohammad hamid ansaari ne prashnkaal shuru karne kaa elaan kiya, bijepi sadsy sarkaar ke andar kathith bhrashtachar ko lekar pradhanmantri manmohan singh ke istife kii maang ko lekar naare lagane lage or asana ke samaksh aa gaye
 The Chairman asked the members shouting slogans in front of the seat, that they should return to their places and let the Question Hour run
 unhone kaha ‘kabhi to prashnkaal chalane dijiye
 Meanwhile, AIADMK members also came in front of the seat demanding the resignation of the Prime Minister
 makapa sadsy apane sthanon par khadey ho kar koi mudda uthaate dekhe gaye
 Seeing the impact of his talk, the Chairman adjourned the proceedings till 12 noon within a few minutes of the commencement of the meeting
 dopaher 12 baje sadan kii baithak shuru hote hi bijepi sadsy kol blaak tathaa railway rishwat maamle main pradhanmantri ke istife kii maang karte hue asana ke samaksh aakar narebaaji karne lage
 Along with him, members of the Shiromani Akali Dal also came before the posture demanding the Special Investigation Team (SIT) to investigate the 1984 anti-sikh riots under the Supreme Court
 sapa sadsy bhi asana ke samaksh aakar sachhar samiti kii siforeeshon ko lagu karne kii maang karte hue narebaaji karne lage
 Left members were also seen coming up in the seat and shouting slogans demanding the resignation of the Railway Minister
 hangaame ke bich hi peethasin sabhapati girija vyas ne aavashyak dastavej sadan ke patal par rakhwae or hangaamaa thamata nahin dekh baithak kuch hi der baad dopaher do baje tak ke liye sthagit kar di
 Ustad Bismillah Khan, Shehnai and Banaras
 
 
 ye teenon naam aapas main itane rache-based hai ki kisi ek ko alag kar uski pahchaan nahin bataai ja sakati
 11 years have passed by saying goodbye to this world, Bismillah Khan Sahab, the sorcerer of the Shehnai, but his tomb is still awaiting the inauguration
 khan sahab ko punyatithi par gulab kii pankhudiyon ke saath yaad kiya gaya
 On 21 August 2006, after the arrival of Bharat Ratna Bismillah Khan, the ceremony of his delivery-e-khaq took place at the Fatman Dargah in Banaras
 us vakt uttar pradesh ke mukhyamantri mulaayam singh yadav the
 He then made several announcements in honor of Ustad Bismillah Khan
 jaise ki unka makbara bananaa, unke naam par ghat, stesan par unki pratimaa laganaa aadi
 When Mulayam Singh's son became the Chief Minister of UP in 2012, he approved a proposal of Rs 29 lakh for the tomb of Bismillah Khan Sahab
 ustad bismillah khan kaa makbara taiyaar jarur ho gaya he, lekin yahaan nirmaan kii gunvattta ko lekar jarur sawaal uth rahe hai
 The roof of the mausoleum also got destined with the main gate of the dargah being renovated
 ab ye baat alag he ki nayaa nirmaan hone ke baavjood makbare kii chat barsaat main chooney lagi
 Regional Cultural Center Head Dr
 ratnesh verma ke mutabik baar-baar makbare main nai chizon ko jode jane ke chalate iskaa kaam puraa nahin ho paa rahaa he
 The work increased considerably from the original work
 verma ke mutabik agar koi or kaam nahin joda gaya to makbare ke udghaatan ke liye ek maah main sarkaar ko likh kar de diya jayega
 Varma also said that where there was leakage from the roof of the tomb, it has been repaired
 vahiin, ustad bismillah khan ke parijan or prashansak makbare ke nirmaan kii gunvattta ko lekar khush nahin he
 He says that it is beyond comprehension where 29 lakh rupees have been spent
 ustad bismillah khan ke pautra afaaq haidar ne kaha ki banaras kii viraasat hone kii vajah se bahut se log khan sahab kaa pushtaini ghar dekhne aate hai, lekin vahaan jane vaale raste par atikaraman kii vajah se chalanaa mushkil he
 According to Haider, the government should also pay attention to this
 bataa den ki dedh saal pehleunesco necreative cities of network ke tahat banaras ko ‘city of mujeec’kaa khitaab diya tha
 It contained the purpose of preserving the musical position of Banaras
 lakhanu se lekardilli tak ahm padon par baithe logon vaada kiya tha ki banaras sangeet or isse jude fankaaron se judi yaadon ko samrudh or sangrakshit kiya jayega
 There was talk of decorating the artist's houses and the surrounding areas, but surprisingly the name of the shehnai magician Bismillah Khan did not figure in this list
 baharhaal, ustad bismillah khan ke parijanon or prashansakon ko intjaar he sarkaar kii ore se un haathon kaa jo banaras aakar naa sirf khan sahab ke makbare kaa udghaatan karen balki unki dharoharon ko sahejane kaa vaada bhi karen
 Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee on Monday presented his sixth and UPA-2 government's third general budget, giving some relief to the common citizens, making the tax-free income limit 1
 6 lakh rupee se badhaakar 1
 8 lakh has been proposed
 do hi maheenon main paanch rajyon main vidhansabha chunaavon ke maddenjar vittamantri ne aam aadmi ko raahat dene ke liye kai kadam uthaae hai, jinke tahat ab 62 ke sthaan par 60 varsh ke naagarik varisht maane jaaenge, jinhen 2
 Income up to 5 lakhs will not be taxed
 iske atirikt 80 varsh se adhik aayu vaale 'ativarisht' naagarik maane jaaenge, jinke liye karmukt ysima paanch lakh hogi
 The Finance Minister has also expected a nine percent increase in gross domestic product (GDP) in the year 2011-12, and claimed that inflation will come down next year
 iske atirikt shri mukherjee ne cash sabsidi ke liye sarkaar dwaara samiti banaae jane kii bhi ghoshnaa kii
 He said that cash subsidy will be given in LPG, fertilizer and kerosene, which will be applicable from 2012
 vittamantri ne bhrashtachar se ladane kii jarurat bataate hue miljul-kar is disha main kaam karne kaa aahruvan kiya
 The government has also made a provision of 52 thousand crores for education sector, and 58 thousand crores rupees for Bharat Nirman
 unhone ghoshnaa kii ki samay par karj chukaane vaale kisaanon ko teen pratishat kii chhot milegi, jabaki ab 25 lakh tak ke home lone surakshit maane jaaenge, pehle yah seemaa 20 lakh thi
 Apart from this, the government will give one percent subsidy on interest as a discount on home loan up to 15 lakh
 sarkaar ne rashtriya krishi vikaas yojana kaa bajet bhi badhaakar 7,866 karod rupee kaa praavdhaan kiya he
 Rural banks will also be given additional capital of Rs 5,000 crore in the new financial year
 vittamantri ke mutabik gramin kshetron main abhi kaaphi kuch karnaa baaki he
 According to the Finance Minister, the government has set a target of disinvestment of 40 thousand crores in the year 2011-12, and a bill regarding the grant of new bank licenses has also been announced in this session
 vittamantri ne mahangaai ke ghatane kaa daawa karte hue kaha ki chini-daal kii keemton main kami ai he tathaa agle saal mahangaai kam ho jaaegi
 He said that food inflation has come down, and that is 20
 2 se 9
 3 percent, and there is a big difference between wholesale and retail prices
 unhone kaha ki 2014-15 tak ghaataa puraa karne kaa lakshya rakhaa gaya he tathaa tex pranali ko or saral banaaya jayega
 And the Bill will be brought to implement the General Service Tax (GST) across the country
 udyogon kii protsaahan package vaapasi kii disha main koi bada kadam nahin uthaaya gaya or utpaada evam seemaa shulk kii sheersh maanak daron main badlaav nahin kiya gaya he
 The service tax was kept unchanged at 10 percent and several other services were announced to be covered
 gharelu companiyon par kar boj ko kuch halkaa karte hue vittamantri ne companiyon par lagane vaale 7
 Reduced the 5 percent surcharge rate to 5 percent
 haalanki unhone nunatam vaikalpik kar (mat) dar ko ghataane ke bajaay 18 se badhaakar 18
 5 percent
 udyog jagat kii maang thi ki mat dar saamaanya company kar kii aadhi honi chahie
 The Finance Minister has proposed to increase the budget allocation for various social sector schemes by 17 percent to Rs 1,60,887 crore as compared to last year
 yah raashi kul yojana aavanton kaa 36
 4 percent
 ekikrut bal vikaas yojana ke tahat anganbari kaaryaktaaon kii lambey samay se chali aa rahi maang par gaur karte hue vittamantri ne anganbari kaaryaktaaon kaa mehtaanaa 1,500 se badhaakar 3,000 rupee or anganbari sahaayakon kaa paarishramik 750 se badhaakar 1500 rupee pratimah kar diya
 This arrangement will be effective from April 2011
 isse deshbhar main 22 lakh anganbari kaaryakarta or sahaayak labhanvit honge
 In the budget, a total provision of Rs 58,000 crore has been made for the Bharat Nirman scheme in the next financial year, which is Rs 10,000 crore more than the current financial year
 bharat nirmaan yojana main pradhanmantri gram sadak yojana, twarit sinchai yojana, rajeev gandhi gramin vidyutikaran yojana, indira awaas yojana, rashtriya gramin peyajal yojana or gramin telephoni yojana shamil he
 Presenting the budget, Mukherjee said that the country's growth has been rapid and comprehensive in the current financial year
 arthvyavastha sankat se ubharkar vikaas ke path par waapas aa gai he
 The agriculture sector has shown growth again and the industry is returning to its former boom
 seva kshetra main do ank kii vruddhi hui he tathaa rajkoshiya majbootee kii disha main uthaaye kadam prabhavi rahe hai
 This will pave the way for binary growth in the near future
 rajasthan main bhartiya janata party ke pradesh adhyaksh madanlaal saini babar or humayun par apane bayaan ko lekar vivaadon main ghir gaye hai or is bayaan ke chalate itihaas ke pannon kii sachai par ek bahes bhi shuru ho gai he
 Saini said on July 24- "as far as i know when Humayun was dying, he called Babur and said that you have to rule India, then one thing should always be kept in mind
" gaay, brahman or mahilaon kaa hameshaa sammaan karnaa
 "he made this comment while reacting to the incident of mob lynching in Alwar
 alvar main gaay le ja rahe alpsankhyak samudaay ke ek vyakti ko gorakshakon ne gherkar peeta jiske baad uski maut ho gai
 The state and central governments of the BJP are being criticized for this incident
 isi mudde par jaipur main apni pratikriya vyakt karte hue saini ne yah tippanee kii
 However, Madanlal made many mistakes while commenting on the incident of Alwar
 pehali to yah ki unhone baap ko betaa or bete ko baap bataa diya
 The truth is that Babur's son's name was Humayun
 lekin unhone humayun ko babar kaa pita bataa diya
 Babur's real bequest to Humayun's name is the second factual fact that Babur had instructed Humayun about the cow
 lekin madanlaal saini ne isamen auraten or brahman apni taraf se jod die
 Actually, the description of such correspondence between Babur and Humayun which is available as historical evidence is the will of Babur in Humayun's name
 is vasiyat main babar ne humayun ko jo sikh di he, use ham yahaan aapke liye prastut kar rahe hai
 In the will, Babur said, “son, there are people who believe in every religion in the land of India
 alahamdolillaah is mulk kii badshahath tumhen saunpi gai he
 Remove justice from your heart and make justice
 khaas taur par tum gaay kii qurbaani naa karo
 With this you will win the heart of the people of India and people will join the king
 sultanate main rahane waalon kii ibaadatgahon ko giraao mat
 Justice so much that people are happy with their king and the king with people
 islam julm kii talwaar se nahin, narmi se aage badhegaa
 shia-sunni quarrels on behalf of others, otherwise Islam will be weak
 sultanate ke alag-alag phirake jism ke chaar tattvon kii tarah hai
 The health of the Sultanate rests on their synergy
 hazrat amir taimur sahibe kiraan kii misaal hameshaa tumhaare saamne rahani chahie
 This will help strengthen the Sultanate
 "hamen is prasang kaa zikr miltaa he varisht patrkaar or lekhak shaaji jamaan ke upanyaas "akbar" main
 This novel based on historical facts is a unique attempt in itself to bring the history of that time to the people
 akbar or mughalkaal ko lekar jis tarah kii bhrantiyaan logon ke bich prachlit hai, uske maddenzar yah upanyaas ek aitihaasik or pramanik dastavej jaisaa he
 The novel was published in 2016 by Rajkamal Prakashan
 aitihaasik tathyon par bahesmughalkaal ke itihaas ko lekar kai tarah ke tathy hai or itihaaskaaron ke bich paraspar virodhabhas bhi
 One of them is the authenticity of Babar's will
 kuch itihaaskaar maanate hai ki babar kii humayun ke naam vasiyat pramanik nahin he
 On the other hand, one of the greatest historians of medieval history, Khaliq Ahmad Nizami, considers this will to be authentic and includes it in his famous book - 'akbar and Religion'
 shaaji jamaan apni kitaab main is vasiyat kaa hawala khaliq ke shodh se lekar prastut karte hai
 In conversation with Aaj Tak, he said, "nizami sahib is a distinguished historian
 unka maananaa he ki abul fazal ne iskaa zikr akbarnama main nahin kiya kyonki wo aisa nahin chaahate the ki akbar kuch aisa karte najar aaen jo pehle koi kar chukaa ho
 "some people say that Abul Fazl did not mention it in Akbarnama
 lekin uski vajah yah thi ki abul fazal akbar ke qad ko unase pehle ke shaskaon se bada banaakar dikhaanaa chaahate the
 He did not want Akbar to be seen saying something that someone had said earlier
 ”akbar nahin maharana the mahaan, jinhone us kaal main bhi swabhimaan ke liye ladi ladaai: CM yogimdanlaal saini kii tippanee ke baad se soshal media par lagaataar jo pratikriyaayein aa rahi hai, usamen kai log yah kah rahe hai ki babar or humayun ke bich aise samvaad kaa koi aitihaasik pramaan uplabdh nahin he
 While many historians believe that the will mentioned in Khaliq's book is correct
 lekin donon hi sthitiyon main madanlaal saini fanse hue dikhaai dete hai
 If this thing has not been said in history, then from where did Madan Lal tell it
 or agar vasiyat sahi he to phir isamen brahman or mahilaon kaa sandarbh ko kahaan se le aae
 Humayun then called Babur and said that the matter is completely wrong
 sanderbhit vasietname main likhi baton se spasht he, babar ne humayun ko salaah di thi ki hindustan main gaay kii qurbaani sahi nahin he, kisi bhi sampradaay ke ibaadatgahon yani mandiron aadi ko nuksaan nahin pahunchaaya janaa chahie or barabari par aadhaarit vyavastha banaakar shashan karnaa chahie
 The UP government will give 5 budding poets every year, in this advice of Gopaldas Neeraj Award Babar, it has been advised to maintain the rule in India on the foundation of peace and brotherhood
 madanlaal saini ne is sandarbh ko apni suvidha ke anusaar tod or badalakar pratikriya swaroop pesh kiya he
 This is also not the first case of giving such convenient and incorrect information by the Bharatiya Janata Party
 itihaas ko apni suvidha yaa agyanta ke kaaran party ke kai netaa alag-alag tareeke se bataate rahe hai
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself has made mistakes while sharing references of history in his speeches
 ladakh ke demchek or chumaar main chiniyon ne tambu kyon laga rakhe hai? chini sainik hamaari jameen par kyon kabja kiye hue hai? ye sawaal har bhartiya ko khaae ja rahaa he
 Why is the conflict between India and China increasing on the LAC, while Chinese President Xi Jinping recently returned home after admiring the Indian hospitality
 darasal, is sawaal kaa jawaab china ke raashtrapati shi jinping ke ek bayaan main chupa hua he
 His frustration was palpable when Jinping was talking to commanders of the People's Liberation Army on Sunday to sharpen their ability to win regional battles
 haalia daure par shi jinping pradhanmantri narendra modi ko apane mohpash main baandhne main naakaam rahe
 Jinping wanted the Indian and Indian Prime Ministers to reduce the heat of their relations with Japan and move slowly
 lekin modi, jinping ke jaal main nahin fanse
 So China put its troops on the LAC, so that the Indians could not advance much with Japan
 angreji akhbaar times of india ne is aashay kii khabar prakashit kii he
 According to a Western diplomat, Xi Jinping wants to keep military pressure on India, so that it stays away from Japan
 japan ke pradhanmantri shinjo abe se gale milte pradhanmantri narendra modigauratlab he ki shi jinping ne pipuls libration army ke cmanderon se kaha tha ki soochna praudyogiki ke daur main kshetreey ladaai ko jeetne ke liye apni kshamta ko dhardaar banaaen
 Stress is currently underway on several fronts in Ladakh between India and China
 beijing main rahane vaale ek rajanyik ke mutabik japan sanyeekaran kii ore bad rahaa he
 At the same time, Modi's arrival as a strong leader and his friendship with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe amidst all this could be the worst thing for China
 lihaaja japan ko bharat se dur rakhane ke liye shi jinping ne bharat par sainya dabaav banaae rakhaa he
 The official said that China was trying to prove its superiority in the region
 unhone kaha ki is sambandh main pichley maheene china ke ladaaku vimaan or america yudhak vimaan kii najdiki bhidnt ko bhi aap dekh sakate hai
 Another diplomat said on the tension between India and China on the military front, 'china can do anything to keep India away from Japan
 chaahe wo bharat ko lubhaaen, dhamkee de yaa kuch bhi, vah kar saktaa he
 So that India stays away from Japan
 'unhone kaha, 'china asia main kshetreey takat banane ke liye patibaddh he
 But the indo-japanese friendship can shatter his intentions
 ' Firdaus said, Imran Khan's stance on the Kartarpur corridor, similar to many ideals of Sikhism, Islam, now Pakistan has done the trick to woo the Sikhs
 sikh ladki ke dharm parivartan ke maamle main aalochana hone ke baad pakistan ke pradhanmantri imran khan kii vishesh sahayika firdaus aashiq awan ne kaha ki sikh dharm ke kai adarsh islam ke samaan hai
 Firdaus Aashiq Awan said that Sikhs and Muslims should work unitedly to defeat extremism and intolerance in the world
 da news international ke mutabik governor house main antarrashtriya sikh sammelan ko sambodhit karte hue imran khan kii sahayika firdaus ne kaha ki sikh dharm ke kai adarsh islam ke samaan hai
 He said that Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism, was influenced by the notion of peace, tolerance and advocacy of humanity and the Tauheed of Islam
 bataa den ki unhone yah bayaan guru nanak dev kii 550 veen jayanti samaaroh kii taiyaariyon ke bare main suzav maangane ke makasad se punjab ke governor choudhary mohammad sarwar kii pahal par 31 agast se 2 sitambar tak yojit sammelan main kahi
 Indeed, Indian Sikh pilgrims along with thousands of others from around the world will visit the gurdwara at Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan's Punjab province in November to celebrate the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev
 kartarpur sahib gurudware main guru nanak dev ne apane antim din bitaye the
 Firdaus Awan said that we have to eliminate the forces of hatred and intolerance of the world
 nafrat failaane vaali takatein swarna mandir main sikhon kaa narsanhaar, kashmir main musalamaanon kaa utpeedan kar sakati hai
 On the Kartarpur corridor, Awan said that Prime Minister Imran Khan's decision reflects his thinking about the rights and religious freedom of minorities in Pakistan
 unhone kaha, mujhe ummid he ki aap log udghaatan samaaroh main shaamil honge or duniya ko pakistan kaa sahi cheharaa dikhaaenge
 Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has claimed the development of Bihar on many forums
 yah sach bhi he or kai logon ne bhi mana he ki bihar kii tasviir badal rahi he, lekin yah bhi ek hakeekat he ki bihar ke 81 fisadi se zyada gharon main ab bhi shauchalay nahin he
 This figure is telling the reality of Bihar's development
 sarkaar ne haalanki is ore pahal karte hue ghar-ghar shauchalay nirmaan kaa abhiyaan chalaaya he or mukhiya yaa janpratinidhiyon ko chunaav ladane ke liye gharon main shauchalay nirmaan ko anivaary kar diya gaya he
 It is not that people are not aware about the toilet
 bihar main mahilaayein shauchalay ko lekar zyada jaagruk hui hai or ve ab aise gharon main byaah karnaa hi nahin janaa chaahatin, jis ghar main shauchalay nahin he
 Lalita, who hails from Lakhanpur panchayat in Gaya district, is happy to have toilets in the village these days
 vah kahati he ki pehle kisi ke jameen par shouch kar dene se vivaad ho jaataa tha
 In view of this problem, a voluntary organization has constructed about 160 toilets in the panchayat
 vah kahati hai ki pehle garibon ke ghar main plastic shit se shauchalay banaaya jaataa tha
 On the other hand, Amisha, a resident of Neura village in Aurangabad district, herself has been constantly suffering from inconvenience, but she wants to give a toilet gift to her sister-in-law
 vah kahati hai ki unke devar shaadi tay he magar vah nahin chaahati hai ki unki devraani ko bhi nityakriya ke liye pareshaan hona pade
 She says that a toilet is being constructed in her house and she will give it to Devrani as a gift
 unka kahana he ki sachmuch shouch ke liye baahar khule main janaa sabase zyada pareshaani kaa kaaran he
 It is unfortunate that on one side the daughter-in-law is advised to stay in the veil and on the other hand she has to be uncovered sitting outside
 vaise yah kahani keval lalita yaa amisha kii nahin he
 This is more or less the same in every region of the state
 yah 21veen sadi ke us bihar kii kahani he jahaan kii dharti par janme sulabh interneshal ke sansthaapak dow
 Vindeshwar Pathak has won several international awards by making toilet construction a movement
 idhar haalanki logon main jaagarukta ai he
 Low-income people are talking about building toilets under the schemes run by the government
 rajya ke gramin vikaas mantri nitish mishra ne bataaya ki ab sarkaar shauchalay nirmaan ke liye 9100 rupee de rahi he
 He said that 4500 rupees are being given from MNREGA scheme and Rs 4600 under Nirmal Bharat Abhiyan
 labhaarthi ko khud sirf 900 rupee kharch karnaa he
 The minister says that the government has announced several awards to make Nirmal Gram and Block
 jin panchayaton main sabhi gharon main shauchalay hoga, use nirmal gram puraskaar diya jayega tathaa jin prakhandon main shat-pratishat gharon main shauchalay nirmaan hoga
 He will be given the Nirmal Block Award
 aise prakhandon ko 25 lakh rupee die jaaenge
 Nitish Mishra says that the target of building 1 million toilets has been set in the current financial year
 bihar ko varsh 2022 tak khule main shouch se mukt karne kaa lakshya rakhaa gaya he
 Ministers also believe that 17 in Bihar
 6 pratishat pariwaron main hi shauchalay he
 He says that the government has made it mandatory for the public representatives contesting the panchayat and municipal elections to construct toilets in their house, now the representatives who will not have a personal toilet in their house will be disqualified to contest the election
 aaj se jammu-kashmir main preeped mobile phone se esemes par pratibandh hat gaya he
 The state government took this important decision on Tuesday
 soobe main chaar saal se yah pratibandh lagu tha
 On Tuesday, the government release said, "on the instructions of Chief Minister Omar Abdullah, the ban on SMS from prepaid cell phones in the state has been lifted
" 'bayaan main kaha gaya he, 'preeped ke graahakon ne mukhyamantri se is bare main aagrah kiya tha or unhone sambandhit agenciyon ko nirdesh diya he
 'SMS from mobile phones was banned in Kashmir in June 2010
 saal 2013 main postped seva se pratibandh hataa diya gaya, lekin preeped par pratibandh jari tha
 In 2019, Indian security agencies were looking for the country's most wanted terrorists
 isi saal jab sansad main gaiyrkanoonee gatividhi rokthaam kanoon yani UAPA kii pehali list jari kii gai to usamen desh ke chaar most wonted aatankiyon ke naam darj the
 These are the terrorists who have made India's blood tears the most
 jinke haath sansad hamale se lekar pulavama hamale tak or uri se lekar mumbai tak saikadon begunaahon ke khun se sane hai
 These are the four poor, who not only sow terror but also reap terror
 in chaaron most wonted aatankiyon ke naam red corner notice bhi jari kiye gaye hai
 These four terrorists are - Masood Azhar, Hafiz Saeed, Zaki ur Rehman Lakhvi and India's Most Wanted Underworld Don Dawood Ibrahim
 in chaaron ke karname lahu ke rang se likhe gaye hai
 Along with them, India has also given the title of terrorist
 haalanki inke liye to ye fakhr kii baat he kyonki aatank ke inke biodata main ek khitaab or jud gaya he
 So let us tell you that this year also the black acts of these most wanted terrorists of India
 aatanki moulana masood ajharasbase pehla biodata he masood azhar kaa
 Its address is Bahawalpur and Karachi
 isse sampark karne ke liye aapako iesai yani pakistani sena se baat kerani padegi or vahaan madad naa mili to aap imran khan se sidhe baat kar sakate hai
 Let us first talk about its experiences
 aatanki sanghathan jaish-e-mohammad ke mukhiya ke taur par isane afghanistan main america or noto force ke khilaaf jang ladi thi
 It had a direct hand in the 2001 Parliament attack in Delhi
 2008 ke mumbai hamale or 2016 kaa pathankot hamale ko isi ke ishaare par anjaam diya gaya
 And it also had an important role in conducting the Pulwama attacks of 2019
 ab baat karte hai khitaabon kii to sanyukt raashtra suraksha parishad or america ise antarrashtriya aatanki ghoshit kar chukaa he or ab bharat ne bhi yuapie kanoon ke tahat number van wonted aatanki ghoshit kar diya he
 The special thing is that out of the four terrorists whose bio-data have been chosen unanimously, all of them are from Pakistan
 yun to masood apane aakaa hafiz said se umr main kam he, magar aatanki ghatnaon ko anjaam dene main wo itnaa aage nikal gaya ki apane aakaa ko hi peeche chhod diya or aakaa duusare number par aa gaye
 Terrorist Hafiz Mohammed Sayeed's second biodata is that of Hafiz Saeed
 iskaa pataa johar tun, lahore he
 But he is currently in jail
 isse sampark karne ke liye bhi aapako iesai yani pakistani sena yaa imran khan se baat kerani hogi
 Talking about its experiences, it is known as the head of Jamaat ud Dawa
 hafiz said 2001 main dilli main hue sansad hamale main shaamil tha
 He was also the mastermind of the 2006 Mumbai local train blasts
 2008 ke mumbai hamale kaa mastermind bhi yahi shaatir aatanki tha
 The United Nations Security Council and the United States have declared it an international terrorist
 america ne to is par 10 million dollar kaa inaam bhi ghoshit kar rakhaa he
 Britain, Russia, the European Union and Australia have banned its organization
 or ab bharat ne bhi ise yuapie kanoon ke tahat aatanki ghoshit kar diya he
 Talk of underworld don Dawood Ibrahimdasht and if Don's name is not known, it is an insult to Don himself
 yuapie ke tahat aatanki ghoshit kiye gaye aatankiyon main anderworld don daaud ibrahim kaa naam tisare nabanr par aayaa he
 So take a look at their resume as well
 daaud ibrahim kaa pataa clifton road, karachi he
 You will have to talk to ISI to contact it
 iske anubhavon kii baat karen to ise di company ke mukhiya ke taur par janaa jaataa he
 Dawood was involved in the 1993 Mumbai blasts
 wo bharat main gaiyrkanoonee tareeke se smagaling kaa kaam karata he
 There are dozens of cases of murder and extortion registered against him in Mumbai
 daaud kii uplabdhiyon kii baat karen to america ne use 2003 main antarrashtriya aatanki ghoshit kiya tha
 a prize of US $ 25 million has been placed on it
 epabiai or forbs kii top ten most wonted list main uskaa naam shaamil he
 And now India too has declared him a terrorist under the UAPA Act
 aatanki zaki ur rahamaan lakhviatankwaad par lagaam kasne ke liye banaae gaye bharat ke nae kanoon UAPA ke tahat bharat ne 4 khoonkhaar aatankiyon ko apni teror list main shaamil kiya he
 The last name in this list is Zaki ur Rehman Lakhvi
 is aatanki kaa rezyum bhi kaaphi vazandaar he
 Its address is Okara, Punjab and Muridke
 isse sampark karne ke liye aapako iesai se baat kerani hogi
 Talking about its experience, as the Supreme Commander of lashkar-e-toiba, it trained the fidayeen who were involved in the 2006 Mumbai train blasts
 2008 ke mumbai hamale karne vaale aatankiyon ko bhi isi ne training di thi
 It is mastered in preparing fidayine
 isaki uplabdhiyon kii baat karen to america ne ise 2008 main aatanki ghoshit kiya tha
 And now India too has declared it a terrorist under the UAPA Act
 tii-20 match jitkar westeindies daure kii shandaar shuruyaat karne vaali doum darje kii bhartiya cricket team somvaar se shuru ho rahi paanch maichon kii ek divasiy shrinkhalaa main bhi jeet kii lay barkaraar rakhane utregi
 Indian team captain Suresh Raina is playing without Sachin Tendulkar, regular captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni, Yuvraj Singh, Virender Sehwag, Gautam Gambhir and fast bowler Zaheer Khan
 is team ne ekmaatr tii-20 match main mejabaan ko 16 ran se haraakar umdaa aagaaj kiya
 Raina, who learned captaincy from Anil Kumble, Rahul Dravid and Dhoni, has taken over the reins of the youth team
 kris gail kii gaiyr maujuudagi main kamjor carabian chunauti se paar paane main team india ko dikkat nahin hui
 With his explosive batting in the IPL, Gayle will be the only silent spectator in the first two odis due to an outburst against the Gayle Board, who have reached the heights of success
 raina ne kaha, westeindies team ko gail jaise khilaadiyon kii kami khalegi
 The pressure of victory increases further in front of a weaker opponent and Raina is well aware of this
 raina ne kaha, dabaav to hameshaa rahata he or hamane dabaav main acha pradarshan kiya he
 It is the responsibility of the players to execute the strategy of the coach very well
 hamen apana swaabhaavik khel dikhaanaa hoga
 In the T20 match, India were 56 for four in nine overs but s Badrinath and Rohim Sharma added 71 runs to lay the foundation for a good score
 aakhri paanch over main bharatiyon ne 71 ran banaae
 India have openers like Parthiv Patel and Shikhar Dhawan who did not make it to the T20 matches
 bhartiya madhyakram ko rokna haalanki ravi rampal, dwen braavo yaa andre rasel ke bas kii baat nahin hogi
 The Indian fast bowling attack led by Munaf Patel may not look as strong but under the command of Harbhajan Singh, the spinners will get an advantage on turn-taking pitches
 westeindies team main kirone pollard kii vaapasi hui he jisase ballebaaji majboot hogi
 Bowling remains a concern for captain Darren Sammy
 captain ne kal chaar wicket liye lekin duusare chor se unhen sahyog nahin mila
 Teams: India: Suresh Raina (captain), r Ashwin, s Badrinath, Harbhajan Singh (vice-captain), Virat Kohli, Praveen Kumar, Amit Mishra, Munaf Patel, Parthiv Patel (wicketkeeper), Yusuf Pathan, Wriddhiman Saha (wicketkeeper) ), Ishant Sharma, Rohit Sharma, Vinay Kumar, Manoj Tiwari and Shikhar Dhawan
 westeindies : derren saimi (captain), carlton bow (wicketiper), landle simons, kirk edwards, derren braavo, marlton samulls, ramanaresh sarwan, dwen braavo, kirone pollard, andre rasel, anthony martin, devendra bishu, ravi rampal
 Thousands of people from many districts of the state, including Bihar capital Patna, may be surrounded by floods and rain water, but Aditi Singh, a student of National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT), is in the water on the streets of Patna
 Getting the buzz by doing photo shoots
 kuch log haalanki ise galat kah rahe hai, parantu kai log aditi ke is nirnay ke saath bhi hai
 Patna photographer Sourav Anuraj shared the photoshoot on social media
 saurav ne in tasveeron ko apane fasebuk waal par share karte hue iskaa sheershak 'maramed in dizaster' (mermaid in Disaster) diya he
 These photos have received more than 10,000 likes
 a post shared by Meow studio(saurav Anuraj) (@meowwala) on Sep 29, 2019 at 12:22am pdtsorava apane fasebuk wal par aage likhte hai, "meri soch yah thi ki logon kaa dhyaan bihar kii baadh kii taraf khinchaa jaae
 In other states, when floods occur, people come forward to help
 bihar kii baadh kii vibhishika kaa zikr rashtriya-antarrashtriya media main utana nahin hota
 "he further said that people would stop seeing such pictures on social media and that is why such photoshoot has been done
 haalanki kai log is photoshute kii aalochana kar rahe hai
 On social media, many 'users' are calling it propaganda in the disaster, while many are calling it a joke with the victims
 baharhaal, photoshute kii tasviren charchaa kaa vishay bani hui hai, or log in tasveeron ko pasand bhi kar rahe hai
 a post shared by Meow Studio (saurav Anuraj) (@sauravanuraj) on Sep 27, 2019 at 9:09 pm PDTA post shared by Meow Studio (saurav Anuraj) (@sauravanuraj) on Sep 27, 2019 at 9:08 pm PDT21 year Indian Army This officer, who became a 'supermodel' after living in India, has done with Deepika Padukone, after eating these 5 things, she gets tremendous sleep, if she does not eat at the office, then women can roam topless in these states in America, know why The story of Sundar Pichai happened: know how the CEO of Google moved out of a two bedroom house emsidi chunaav ke liye dilli bijepi main is baar tikat ke liye badi mashkkat he
 By cutting the tickets of the incumbent councilors, the BJP has vacated the entire ground for the MCD election
 sabhi 272 vaardon main vaikency hai, to party ke har chote bade netaa kii ummiden bad gai hai
 Therefore, everyone is working in manipulations to get tickets
 kaaryakartaaon kaa man rakhane ke liye bijepi ne kai jagah arzi counter khole the, jahaan abhi tak saadhe taintis hazaar se zyada logon ne tikat ke liye aavedan kiya he
 The BJP formed a committee to lay off this pile of applications
 sabhi saansadon ke saath zila adhyaksh, mandal adhyaksh, teen mahaamantriyon ke saath hi kor cameti ke sadasyon kii sahmati se har ward se 15-15 naam chhante gaye hai
 From these fifteen names, the criteria for candidates is now being decided for each ward
 dilli bijepi ke adhyaksh manoj tiwari ke mutabik is baar unkeummidawarsmart honge
 The maximum age will be 45 years and candidates of 21 years can also appear in the BJP list
 jo chunaav ladane ke liye nunatam umr he
 According to Tiwari, most tickets will be given to people of the same age
 haalanki kuch apwaad ho sakate hai, jisamen zyada umr ke logon kii ummidavaari par vichaar ho saktaa he
 Apart from this, BJP is also conducting an internal survey, the candidates whose report will be strong in this survey can get their lottery in ticket distribution
 bijepi adhyaksh manoj tiwari ke mutabik sari prakriyaayein 26 march tak puri kar lee jaaengi, jinamein chantni ke baad saamne aae 15-15 naamon main seummidavaaratay kar liye jaaenge
 Tiwari said that on March 27, his full list will be released
 manoj tiwari ne aam aadmi party par bhi tanj kasate hue kaha ki aam aadmi party main tikat ke naam par sauda ho rahaa he
 Therefore, the candidates already announced are being replaced after the deal is canceled
 bijepi main aisa nahin hoga or puri tarah jaanch parakh ke baad ummidavaaron kii suchi jari kii jaaegi
 Zoya-like story of 'ek Tha Tiger' is repeated with Pakistan
 pakistan ke videsh main sthit ek duutavas kaa ek ahm adhikari ati gopneey dastavejon ke saath faraar ho gaya he or uski talash jari he
 This officer was posted at the Pakistani Embassy in Austria
 yahaan bheje jane se pehle is adhikari ko pakistani sena main jimmedaar pad par tainaat kiya gaya tha
 This officer was a resident of sara-e-kharbuja and was posted to the Pakistani Embassy in Austria
 bataaya ja rahaa he ki saare ahm dastavej isi adhikari kii desk se hokar guzarate the
 Not only this, according to Pakistani newspaper Dawn, the Pakistani Ministry of Defense had engaged it in a very sensitive mission
 jaankaree ke mutabik is adhikari ko vahaan par kaaphi mahatvapurn or samvedansheel rashtriya maamalon kaa aadhikarik prabharee banaaya gaya tha
 Dawn's report said that this responsibility was very important for the sovereignty of the country and was also very sensitive
 pakistaniraksha mantralay kii shikaayat par is adhikari ke gaayab hone or dastavejon ke gum hone kaa maamla darj kiya gaya he
 The case has been registered under sections 109 (seduction, seduction) and 409 (criminal fraud by a government employee) of the PPC (pakistan Penal Code)
 is maamle main darj exiaar ke mutabik yah adhikari 2 janvari ko hi laapata ho gaya tha
 However, the wife of the missing officer has said that she was already aware of her husband's departure
 mahila ke mutabik unke pati apni marji se gaye hai or paanch saal baad laut aaenge
 So far, the missing officer has not told the Pakistani embassy or his department about his secret hideout
 exiaar ke ant main sabase ahm baat kii ashanka jataai gai he ki yah adhikari desh ke dushmano ke saath mil gaya ho saktaa he
 The story is of Mahabharata
 kurukshetra kii ladaai shuru hone se pehle vaali raat kauravon ke senapati bhishma ne apane tambu main mantranaa yojit kii
 He set the rules for both sides in the war of religion
 unamem ek niyam tha&“raat main koi ek-duusare par waar nahin karegaa
 "bhishma would surely have called the retaliatory military action against four terrorists at the Pathankot Air Force base on 2 January this year a religious war
 yah karrwai teen dinon ke dauraan har raat roak di jaati thi
 Associated with the epic of Ved Vyas through the cycle of Lord Krishna adorned with his sleeves, the black security uniformed commandos of the National Security Guard (NSG) had no choice but to follow Bhishma's rule of religion
 unke paas raat main lambii duuri tak dekhne vaale upkaran nahin the or na hi haathon main pakadaaey vaale thermal imager the, jinase ve raat main dehshatgardon kii talash or peechha kar pate
 They also did not have drones, which could fly continuously over all the areas marked by the suspects
 vahaan koi cmand centre bhi nahin tha, jahaan se ve karrwai kii pragati kii nigaraanee kar pate
 His fear of being shot at by a friend soldier (blue-on-blue incident) was on his head, as the airbase, spread over 2,200 acres, was filled by Air Force Garuda commandos and Indian Army personnel, such security forces Who had never run an operation together
 oparation din nikalne par hi puure josh se dobaaraa shuru hota tha
 It took more than 70 hours for the nsg's 200 commandos to completely liberate the Air Force base from danger
 yah aisi deree thi jiske siyaasi or kootnithik dushprinaam hone hi the
 The manner in which the operation was carried out raised a question mark over the January 1 decision of National Security Advisor Ajit Doval to send the NSG to the airbase
 varisht sainya adhikariyon ne andeh jataayaa ki jo chunauti aan padi thi, uske liye enesji ko bhejnaa kitna makul tha
 In his opinion, the troops of the local army could finish the operation more quickly and more efficiently
 talmail main naakaami ke sandehon ko dur karne or oparation kii kamyaabi kaa elaan karne ke liye pradhanmantri ko 9 janvari ko airbase kaa daura karnaa padaa, jo pehle nahin hua
 In this hugely packed operation, the answer to this much larger question was not found whether the NSG was fit for this purpose or not
 kul 1,400 karod rupye kii aadhunikeekaran kii ek yojana ne 2017 tak enesji ko aadhunik ladaaka bal main badal diya hota, magar yah yojana mahaj ek kapolkalpana banakar rah gai he
 The NSG is a force that has become hollow from within due to years of neglect and is constantly swinging from one crisis to another
 pathankot kaa rasta 26 november, 2008 ko mumbai se shuru hua tha, or jisane pramukh aatank nirodhi bal kii kamajoriyon ko ujagar kar diya tha
 Since then, the NSG has managed to acquire only sniper rifles, submachine guns and pistols for its commandos
 force multiplir yaa kshamta main kai guna ijapha karne vaale ucch takanic sazosaman ab bhi kagaji prastaavon main atake hue hai
 For example, in Pathankot, the force had to depend on the circling Air Force Mi-35 aircraft, which used its thermal imagers to find terrorists in the 2,200-acre Air Force base
 airbase main chaaron taraf haathiyon jitani oonchi ghaas main helicopteron ne jin teji se chalate nishaanon kaa pataa lagaaya, ve aksar junglee boar nikle
 The NSG borrowed armored vehicles from local military units to carry out operations for the purpose of intensive investigation
 unke paas koi kaman chaiki nahin thi, jahaan se adhikari oparation kaa nirdesan or sanchaalan kar pate
 It was a strange mixture of both the jungle warfare operation and what the army calls the fighting in the Timberlands
 oparation main shirkat karne vaale ek adhikari kehete hai, “ham khushkismat the ki aatankwaadiyon ko takneekee ilaake tak pahunchane se roak sake
 "what added to the fortunes of the security forces were the unmatched and unbelievable counter-fight of Captain Fateh Singh, the sentry honorary of the Defense Service Corps, who clashed with the terrorists and killed one of them; The terrorists' disenfranchisement, which stopped rapidly penetrating the Air Force's motor transport pool, thus missed their most important targets — fighter aircraft and warships in the technical area
 ye adhikari kehete hai, “agle hamale main ham itane khushkismat nahin bhi ho sakate hai
 a Home Ministry spokesperson did not respond to the India Today questionnaire
 andhe jaanbajanesji grih mantralay kaa ek vishisht hamalavar bal he, jise aatank yaa apharan kii sthitiyon se nibatane ke liye vishesh rup se banaaya gaya he
 Nevertheless, the neglect of this last weapon for years was openly exposed by the Air Force's inability to protect the base of its frontal front from terrorists
 pathankot main aatankwaadi badi aasaani se 10 foot oonchi diwaar phaand kar mukhya nishane par hamalaa bolne se pehle puraa din oonchi ghaas main chhipe rahe
 His main targets were army personnel and aircraft standing in the technical area
 unhen vaayu sena ke commando, sena or enesji ke jawan hi roak paae
 The NSG jawans are not far behind in terms of physical norms, salaries and allowances — commandos run 24 km with 20 kg of luggage on the back and fire an average of 60 rounds a day
 yah kamai ke maamle main bhi ek aakarshak kariyar he
 They receive 25 percent of the basic salary as "commando allowance"
 phir bhi is bal main atyaadhunik upkarnon or chust prashikshan kaa abhaav he
 The NSG was formed in 1984 following the destruction of the Golden Temple in the army's action, which made a successful operation only four years after its formation and showed its potential to the world
 may 1988 main oparation blike thunder main swarna mandir ke bheetar baithe 41 aatankwaadiyon ko enesji ke nishanebaajon ne goliyon se uda diya tha or is muthbhed main uskaa ek bhi commando nahin maaraa gaya tha
 But over the years, his technical ability gradually weakened
 2002 main akshardham se lekar aakhirkaar 2008 main mumbai main aatankwaadi hamalon ke samay enesji kii yah kamajori tab saaf dikhaai di, jab ve mumbai main do paanch sitara hotalon or ek yahudee centre main lashkar-e-taiyaba ke aath aatankwaadiyon se loha le rahe the
 The battery of the common Motorola handsets of the commando soldiers was exhausted, they did not even have the necessary items like helmets and ballistic armor to protect themselves
 unke paas raat main dekhne ke liye jo yantra the, ve bhi asardaar nahin the
 Worse, the commanders had lost contact even with their jawans
 mumbai main 48 ghante tak chale enesji ke jatil oparation se kai khamiyaan ujagar huin or use apane bheetar jhaankne ko majaboor hona padaa
 In his presentation to the Home Minister, an experienced jawan who had countered the terrorists in the 26 / 11 attacks said, "this force is not specific at all
" yah bas ek force he
 “in the months following the Mumbai attacks, the NSG had prepared a list of requirements to increase its capacity
 india today ne us suchi kii ek prati hasil kar lee, jo ki grih mantralay kaa agast 2012 kaa dastavej he, jisamen enesji ke liye ek vyapak ruparekha taiyaar kii gai he
 It gives a list of 240 large and small appliances, worth Rs 1,400 crore
 kii laagat se paanch varshon main hasil karnaa he
 The Home Ministry document states, "time is of special importance in all operations of NSG commandos, hence the ability to work in all climates and the technical characteristics are indispensable
 ” isamen “vaastavik samay main sensor shoot grid, data anukulata va vishleshan, acshan kaa nirnay lene vaale centre ke saath hi force ko atyaadhunik upkarnon, hathiyaaron or sanchaar kii anivaary kshamtaaon se las karne” kii vakaalat kii gai thi
 For a general observer, it would have been just a list of toys, but NSG officials say it is to acquire the capabilities that they can put on terrorists
 sabhi commando jeepies se yukt pahane ja sakane vaale computaron or sharir par lage camaron tathaa satellite phonon ke saath aawaaj or video link ke jariye acchhee tarah jude honge
 While sitting in a special dynamic command post, the commander will have the information about the exact location and whereabouts of all his commando personnel
 uske consol ke pardon par vah sab dikhaai degaa jo uske jawan us samay dekh rahe honge
 a sniper coordination system will tell him the location of all his shooters
 drone or portable airostate use ladaai ke sthal kii lagaataar jaankaree degaa
 Vision and thermal image fusion cameras will be able to tell them the difference between man and animal
 mangaya jane vaala upkaran force kii teen kamjor pad chuki bhujaaon-electronic saport group, technical saport group or special vipans squad ko punerjeevit karegaa
 After nearly two years of deliberations, the UPA government has spent Rs 1,400 crore
 kii laagat se enesji ke aadhunikeekaran kii yojana main 200 item kii suchi ko manjuuri di thi
 In the five-year plan, the force will be equipped with advanced radios, long-range sensors, thermal imaging devices and portable radars
 aath saal baad suchi main die gaye sirf mutthi bhar item-sniper rifl or sabamshingan or ek bakhtarband trek-hi kharide gaye hai
 According to the NSG website, there are at least 27 item-shot machine guns, door-penetrating grenades, semi-automatic sniper rifles, hostage conversation sets, wall contact microphones used to spy or peep into rooms — right now
 The initial requests for information (RFI) are in phase
 jaruri itamon ko hasil karne kii maujuuda dar se enesji ko saare upkaran praapt karne main kam se kam paanch saal lag jaaenge
 DNA disturbances The biggest concern of NSG is that it is a deputation-based force
 iskaa matlab he ki iske paas apana sthaayee kader nahin he
 Army personnel join the NSG on a two-year deputation and paramilitary personnel work on a five-year deputation
 force ke is asthaayee charitra ne isaki sansthagat smriti ko khatm kar diya he
 The seed of neglect of the NSG probably lies in the Home Ministry's own plan of modernization
 dastavej main ise “kendriya sashastr police bal” naam diya gaya he, ek aisi paribhaashik shabdaawalee jo ek prakaar se vishesh bal kii maut ko suchit karti he
 Advancement of the NSG has generally been limited to papers, as there have been frequent changes at the upper levels
 dilli airport ke najadik enesji mukhyalay main sthit mahanideshak praavdhaan or aapurti ikai kaa pramukh hota he
 Six Director Generals have been replaced in the NSG since 26 / 11, each serving an average of 14 months
 enesji ke ek adhikari kehete hai, “kisi ko yahaan kii prakriya samajhane main hi chah maheene lag jate hai
 And by the time he makes a decision, it is time for him to leave
 ”major general ve
 K
 datta (ritred), jinhone 1988 main oparation blike thunder main hissaa liya tha, kehete hai, “britain kii esees bhi pratiniyukti par aadhaarit force he, lekin usamen 25 pratishat log sthaayee hote hai
 Indian Army commandos spend more than 10 years in their special battalions
 ”enesji ko special rangers group (esarji) ke saath talmail banaakar kaam karnaa tha
 Each was to have three battalions of about 1,000 commandos drawn from paramilitary forces
 esarji ko gheraabandi ke irdagird gheraa banane kaa kaam karnaa tha, lekin is kaam ke liye vah kabhi uplabdh nahin rahi, kyonki esarji kii kareeb do-tihaai bataliyanon ko viviypi suraksha ke liye tainaat kar diya gaya he
 In Pathankot, the NSG deployed a battalion of srgs in active operation for the first time in recent years
 aalochakon kaa kahana he ki 26 / 11 ke baad is force ko chaar mahanagaron-mumbai, kolkata, hyderabad or chennai-main failaane ke grih mantralay ke faisle ne isaki maut kii ghanti baja di
 With over 10,000 personnel, the NSG is larger than the parachute commando force of the Indian Army
 in nae kendron main vimaan main pravesh ke liye seedhi ke system jaise upkarnon kaa abhaav he, jabaki unka istemaal kisi apahrit vimaan main dhaava bolne ke liye kiya ja saktaa he
 Army Special Forces Officer Lt
 Gen
 Prakash Chand Katoch (retd
) Says, "just as the NSG has been expanded in a few years, when you expand a force, you lighten the training and equipment of manpower
 Let's do it
 ve vishesh balon ke bare main chaar vaishvik sachaaiyaan bataate haih insaan hardware se zyada mahatvapurn hai
 Quality is better than quantity
 vishesh balon ko badi maatra main nahin taiyaar kiya ja saktaa or apatkaaleen maukon ke baad unhen nahin banaaya ja saktaa he
 France's Special Forces GIGN has only 650 personnel to combat terrorists
 germany ke jiesji-9, jiske model par enesji kaa gathan kiya gaya he, main mahaj 200 commando hai
 At a time when the police forces do not have sufficient capacity to deal with terrorists, the NSG constituted as a Federal Emergency Force is constantly facing shortages
 yahaan tak ki isane helicopter hasil karne kii prakriya bhi nahin shuru kii he
 He borrows these from the Indian Air Force and raw's Aviation Research Center for training his soldiers
 enesji ke purv diji arvind ranjan kehete hai ki upkarnon kii kami to sirf ek pardaa he, jo isse kahin bade muddon ko chupa detaa he
 He says, "the biggest drawback of this force is that it has no vision, accountability and responsibility from the authorities
" ” andruni logon kaa kahana he ki apni suchi main zyaadaatar upkarnon ko hasil karne main yah force susti baratata rahaa he
 Important equipment such as Total Containment Vessel (TCV), portable robots, night vision devices in helmets are yet to be found, as their annual maintenance contracts are yet to take place
 manesar main enesji ke adde main ab bhi aadhunik firing range kaa abhaav he
 6 crores after 26 / 11 attack
 kii laagat vaala upkaran kabhi nahin lagaaya gaya
 The modernization of the NSG was part of a broader reshuffle, initiated by the UPA government
 kargil samiksha samiti ke baad 2001 main endie-1 ke mantriyon ke samooh (jioem) kii report main iskaa khaakaa khinchaa gaya tha
 The gom recommended a comprehensive overhaul of the internal security system
 lekin ye sudhaar 26 / 11 hamale ke baad hi shuru kiye gaye
 The UPA government strayed from the Home Ministry's reforms in the last days of its tenure and the deviation remains under the NDA regime
 pathankot or gurdaspur kii tarah ke or bhi hamale hone kii ashanka ne ab aise maukey badha die hai jab is force ko jaldi hi karrwai ke liye bulaayaa jayega
 Terrorists are not waiting for this special force to remove its weaknesses
 jaahir he, aise maahaul main hamaari sarkarein agar nahin chetin to or bade hamale hamaara intjaar kar rahe hai
 Therefore, our policy makers have to rise above their political interests and focus on the national interest and safety of the people, only then we will be able to be assured
 medical paathyakramon ke admician ko lekar supreme court or maharashtra sarkaar aamane-saamne hai
 This situation has arisen due to the decision to make the NEET exam compulsory for students seeking admission in this course
 maharashtra in admishnon ke liye apni CET yojit karata he
 Now after the Supreme Court order, the validity of the CET of the state government has been questioned
 aise main maharashtra sarkaar ne tay kiya he ki vah somvaar ko supreme court ke faisle ke khilaaf punarvichaar yachika daayar karegaa
 In this, the old decision of the court will be challenged
 rajya ke shiksha mantri vinod taavade ne samvaaddaaton ko bataaya ki 1 may or 24 july ko hone vaale alag-alag NEET agzaam kii ek hi merit list banaai jane vaali he
 How is this possible
 aise naammumkin faisle ko chunauti dene ke saath maharashtra sarkaar is agzaam se khud ko 2018 tak dur karne kii manshaa pitishan main rakhega
 Minister said that exam two and merit list one? This is very unfair of CBSC Board with students from Maharashtra
 NEET agzaam kaa nateeja 17 agast ko aana he
 The comments is bich, maharashtra sarkaar ne elaan kiya he ki 5 may ko apane tay samay par vah rajya CET kaa exam legi
 Students should take part in it
 1 may kii NEET main jo chaatr fail honge yaa kam marks lenge unhen 23 july ko hone vaali NEET kaa akzam dene kaa mauqaa milegaa yaa nahin? is baat ko lekar court ke aadesh main spashtataa na hone ke chalate maharashtra sarkaar kaa yah aagrah he
 The government has said that students should study the CET of the state
 court ke faisle ke adheen rahakar is akzam kaa rigelt hoga
 In the MH CET to be held on May 5, 2 lakh 83 thousand 319 students will give exams for medical courses
 aise main maharashtra sarkaar ne tay kiya he ki vah somvaar ko supreme court ke faisle ke khilaaf punarvichaar yachika daayar karegaa
 In this, the old decision of the court will be challenged
 rajya ke shiksha mantri vinod taavade ne samvaaddaaton ko bataaya ki 1 may or 24 july ko hone vaale alag-alag NEET agzaam kii ek hi merit list banaai jane vaali he
 How is this possible
 aise naammumkin faisle ko chunauti dene ke saath maharashtra sarkaar is agzaam se khud ko 2018 tak dur karne kii manshaa pitishan main rakhega
 Minister said that exam two and merit list one? This is very unfair of CBSC Board with students from Maharashtra
 NEET agzaam kaa nateeja 17 agast ko aana he
 The comments is bich, maharashtra sarkaar ne elaan kiya he ki 5 may ko apane tay samay par vah rajya CET kaa exam legi
 Students should take part in it
 1 may kii NEET main jo chaatr fail honge yaa kam marks lenge unhen 23 july ko hone vaali NEET kaa akzam dene kaa mauqaa milegaa yaa nahin? is baat ko lekar court ke aadesh main spashtataa na hone ke chalate maharashtra sarkaar kaa yah aagrah he
 The government has said that students should study the CET of the state
 court ke faisle ke adheen rahakar is akzam kaa rigelt hoga
 In the MH CET to be held on May 5, 2 lakh 83 thousand 319 students will give exams for medical courses
 is bich, maharashtra sarkaar ne elaan kiya he ki 5 may ko apane tay samay par vah rajya CET kaa exam legi
 Students should take part in it
 1 may kii NEET main jo chaatr fail honge yaa kam marks lenge unhen 23 july ko hone vaali NEET kaa akzam dene kaa mauqaa milegaa yaa nahin? is baat ko lekar court ke aadesh main spashtataa na hone ke chalate maharashtra sarkaar kaa yah aagrah he
 The government has said that students should study the CET of the state
 court ke faisle ke adheen rahakar is akzam kaa rigelt hoga
 In the MH CET to be held on May 5, 2 lakh 83 thousand 319 students will give exams for medical courses
 rajya kii 5 may ko hone vaali MH CET main medical paathyakram ke liye 2 lakh 83 hajaar 319 chaatr agzaam denge
 The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted relief to the Ansal brothers from jail in Delhi's famous gift cinema scandal
 court ne apane faisle main kaha ki ansal bandhuon ko jail nahin hogi lekin unhen teen maheene ke andar jurmaana bharna hoga
 He has been fined 60 crores
 supreme court ne is maamle se jude ek fire adhikari par bhi 10 lakh rupee kaa jurmaana lagaaya he
 The fine amount will be handed over to the Delhi government
 sarkaar is par nirnay legi ki paise kaa kya karnaa he
 Let us tell you that on June 13, 1997, 59 people died in the horrific fire at the Uphaar Cinema located in Green Park, Delhi
 is agnikand nen 100 se adhik log jhulas gaye the
 The fire started in the parking area and spread to the entire building in a short time
 is kaaranmachi bhagaddaur dam ghutane se adhiktar logon kii maut hui
 The BJP government of Karnataka seems to be sinking into a swamp of scams
 mukhyamantri yediurppa par jameen ghotaale ke 9 aarope lagaae ja rahe hai
 He is said to have used wrong methods to benefit his sons
 vipakshi partiyon ke saath-saath purv mukhyamantri ech di kumaraswami ne mukhyamantri yediruppa par karnataka main jameen ghotaale se jude puure 9 aarope lagaaein hai
 In this, allegations are being made on CM Yeddyurappa for taking about 34 acres of land
 aarope he ki unhone apane beton ore rishtedaaron ko jameen dene ke liye herapheri kii he
 In the first week of October, 5 land scams have been revealed, while by the second week of November 4 new land scams have been lifted
 in tamaam aaropon main yediurppa ke do bete bi vaai raghavendra or bi vaai vijendra kaa naam bhi uchhal rahaa he
 Yeddyurappa is being accused that due to his rigging, the state exchequer may suffer losses ranging from Rs
4000 to Rs
5000 crores
 isse pehle is mudde par kai baar vidhansabha main hangaamaa ho chukaa he
 However, now Yeddyurappa is also ready to answer all the allegations and allegations with evidence
 bijepi ne maharashtra or centre main to congress par ghotaalon ko lekar nishaanaa saadh liya he lekin ab dekhnaa hoga ki bijepi karnataka ke apane is mukhyamantri kaa bachaav kaise karti he
 This was canceled by the district administration after indecency with Kanhaiya Kumar of Jawaharlal Nehru University at the Sahitya Mahotsav held in Lucknow
 prashasan ne kaha ki aayojakon ne pustak meley kii ijaajat lee thi na ki kisi goshtee yaa festival kii
 The district administration canceled the first day after heavy uproar in the capital's Shiroz Hangout last night for three days
 is kaarykram main kanhaiya kumaar or film abhinayta shatrughan sinha ne hissaa liya tha
 "the first session last night was of film actress Divya Dutta in which she discussed her book," said Shamim Arju, founder organizer of the Lucknow Sahitya Mahotsav
 iske baad jeenyu ke kanhaiya kumaar apni pustak kii charchaa ke liye manch par aaye tabhi kisi sanghathan se jude kai log vahaan aakar hangaamaa or todphod karne lage
 The police came and pacified the matter after which the book by film actor Shatrughan Sinha was discussed
 ’’ VIDEO- Truth cannot be completely suppressed in this country: Kanhaiya Kumar comments araju ne kaha ki aaj eimm ke saansad asaduddin ovaisi kaa kaarykram hone vaala tha lekin ab yah nahin hoga
 This event will be made live on Facebook
 rajdhani ke shiroj hangout main kal raat se teen din tak chalane vaale sahitya mahotsav ko baari hangaame ke baad jila prashasan ne pehle hi din radd kar diya
 Kanhaiya Kumar and film actor Shatrughan Sinha participated in the event
 lakhanu sahitya mahotsav ke sansthaapak aayojak samim araju ne bataaya, ‘‘kal raat pehla satr film abhinetri divya datta kaa tha jisamen unhone apni kitaab ke bare main charchaa kii
 After this, Kanhaiya Kumar of JNU came on stage to discuss his book, when many people associated with an organization came there and started committing uproar and sabotage
 police ne aakar maamla shant karaayaa jiske baad film abhinayta shatrughan sinha kii pustak par charchaa hui
 '' VIDEO- is desh main sach ko puri tarah dabaaya nahin ja saktaa: kanhaiya kumaar tippaniyan Arju said that today AIMIM MP Asaduddin Owaisi was going to have a program but now it will not happen
 is kaarykram ko fasebuk live kiya jaayegaa
 "the first session last night was of film actress Divya Dutta in which she discussed her book," said Shamim Arju, founder organizer of the Lucknow Sahitya Mahotsav
 iske baad jeenyu ke kanhaiya kumaar apni pustak kii charchaa ke liye manch par aaye tabhi kisi sanghathan se jude kai log vahaan aakar hangaamaa or todphod karne lage
 The police came and pacified the matter after which the book by film actor Shatrughan Sinha was discussed
 ’’ VIDEO- Truth cannot be completely suppressed in this country: Kanhaiya Kumar comments araju ne kaha ki aaj eimm ke saansad asaduddin ovaisi kaa kaarykram hone vaala tha lekin ab yah nahin hoga
 This event will be made live on Facebook
 VIDEO- is desh main sach ko puri tarah dabaaya nahin ja saktaa: kanhaiya kumaar tippaniyan Arju said that today AIMIM MP Asaduddin Owaisi was going to have a program but now it will not happen
 is kaarykram ko fasebuk live kiya jaayegaa
 Arju said that today AIMIM MP Asaduddin Owaisi was going to have a program but now it will not happen
 is kaarykram ko fasebuk live kiya jaayegaa
 The number of followers on the micro-blogging site Twitter of Bollywood actress Priyanka Chopra has crossed 7 million
 32 varshiya ‘mairi com’ star ne janvari 2009 main twitor par ai thi
 He has thanked his fans for supporting him on social media
 unhone twit kiya 'shukriya mere 70 lakh prashansak
 Our family is growing up
 aapkaa pyaar mujhe aage badhaata rahegaa
 'thank you all for # 7millionpcmaniacs
 
 
 Our family is getting larger
 
 Ur love keeps me going
 
 Xoxo— PRIYANKA (@priyankachopra)september 21, 2014priyanka soshal media kaa bahut zyada istemaal karti hai
 She is the fourth most popular Indian celebrity on Twitter
 megaster amitabh bachchan ke ek karod se zyada prashansak hai
 It is followed by Shah Rukh Khan with over 90 lakh fans, Aamir Khan with over 84 lakh fans and Salman Khan with over 82 lakh fans
 paryaavaran ham sabhi ko satark kar rahaa he ki agar hamane paryaavaran kaa soch-samajhakar istemaal nahin kiya to hamaare paas kuch bhi nahin bachegaa
 In view of this, UNEP has also given some suggestions which can help us in saving the world
 aaie jaanate hai paryaavaran se jude kuch tathyon ke bare main jo hamen chetavanee de rahe hai
 1
 centre for science and enwyrement kii report kii maane to bharat kii ganga or yamuna nadiyon ko duniya kii 10 sabase pradooshit nadiyon main shumaar kiya gaya he
 2
 ek report ke anusaaraduniyaake 20 sabase zyada pradooshit shaharon main akele 13 shahar sirf bharat main hai
 3
 agar ek ton kaagaj ko risical kiya jaae to 20 pedo or 7000 gaylen pani ko bachaaya ja saktaa he
 Not only this, the electricity that can be saved from this, the house can be illuminated for 6 months
 4
 You might not know that the junk mail industry cuts around 100 million trees every year
 5
 We 1 by e filing and working without paper
 4 trillian pound paper or 72800 ped bachaa sakate hai
 6
 kya aap jaanate hai ki jo toilet paper ham istemaal karte hai uske liye har saal kareeb 27,000 ped kaate jate hai
 7
 kaagajon ko sirf 6 baar hi ricycle kiya ja saktaa he
 After that the fiber of the paper becomes very weak
 8
 If you cook food at home, plastic waste will be reduced and 260 species can be saved
 9
 You would not know that every year in the world 1
 3 arab ton khaanaa bekaar jaataa he
 One billion people are malnourished and one billion people go hungry
 10
 India is incurring a loss of nearly two lakh crore rupees every year due to pollution
 petroleum mantralay ne ek baar phir rajyon se petrol, dijal par bikrikar ghataane kii apil kii he
 The ministry has said that states should reduce sales tax on transport fuel to control inflation and provide relief to the public
 petroleum rajyamantri jitin prasad ne gajiabad ke logon ko shahari gas vitaran network samarpit karte hue kaha, ‘eendhan kii keemton main vruddhi ke baad uttar pradesh jaise rajya ko petrol, dijal par 350 karod rupee kaa atirikt rajasav milegaa
 In such a situation, the states should reduce the burden of sales tax
 ’ uttar pradesh main petrol par bikrikar kii dar 26
 55 per cent and 17 on diesel
 23 fisadi he
 Recently, referring to the reduction of Value Added Tax (VAT) on diesel by the Delhi Government, the Minister said that the State Governments should take a cue from this and cut the sales tax
 petroleum mantri murali devda bhi isse pehle kah chuke hai ki rajyon ko eendhan par bikrikar tathaa waite kii dar ghataani chahie
 But no state other than Delhi has paid heed to this appeal
 petroleum mantralay ke anumaan ke anusaar, rajyon ko petrol, dijal kii keemton main haal main hui badhotaree se vartmaan waite tathaa bikrikar daron par 3,942
 There will be an additional income of Rs 91 crore
 maharashtra jaise rajya ko jahaan 550 karod rupee kaa atirikt rajasav milegaa, vahiin andhra pradesh ko 410 karod rupee kii atirikt aamadani hogi
 bjp-ruled Gujarat will get Rs 285 crore and Karnataka will get additional revenue of Rs 298 crore
 desh main har taraf chaahe kitni hi garibi or mahangaai dikhaayi de, par yojana ayog kii maane to desh main garib kam hue hai
 There has been a political uproar over these figures of the government
 vipaksh sarkaar par aam aadmi kaa majaak udaane kaa aarope laga rahi hai
 At the same time, the Opposition and the Opposition themselves are also denying the scale of the Planning Commission
 hamale kii shuruyaat bijepi pravaktaa prakaash jaavdekar kii ore se hui he
 He said, 'the UPA government has once again made fun of the public
 rojaanaa ke kharch main maatr 1 rupee kaa badlaav karke sarkaar ne desh ke karodo logon ko suvidhaon se vanchit kar diya he
 He said, "this is an attempt by the government to correct its records before the elections
" ham yojana ayog kii is report ko khaarij karte hai
 'prakash Javadekar has challenged the Congress leaders that they should spend a whole day for only 34 rupees
 gauratlab he ki yojana ayog ke mutabik gramin ilaake main 27 rupee 20 paise or shahari kshetra main 33 rupee 33 paise har roj kharch karne vaale ko garibi rekha se neeche nahin mana jayega
 The major constituent of the UPA does not agree with the NCP Planning Commission data
 ensipi netaa tarik anwar ne do took kaha he ki garibi rekha ko nirdhaarit karne kaa jo paimaana yojana ayog ne bataaya he, wo sahi nahin he
 Tariq Anwar acknowledged that the condition of poverty in the country has improved, as people's living has changed
 lekin yojana ayog ne jo aankade bataae hai, unamem sudhaar karne kii jarurat he
 NCP leader Praful Patel has also expressed his displeasure over these figures
 unhone kaha, garibi main kami ai he par yojana ayog ke aankaden saraasar galat hai
 Advising the Planning Commission, he said, "the commission should have a new limit in terms of food and living
 'ye he taaja aankadagaribi par yojana ayog ke naye aankado ke mutabik 2011-12 main 2004-05 ke mukaable garibi main 15 fisadi kii kami ai he
 Poverty 21 in 2011–12
 9 fisadi darj kii gai jabaki 2004-05 main ye aankada 37
 Was 2 percent
 yojana ayog kaa kahana he ki 2011-12 main garibi kaa aankalan tendulkar pranali ke mutabik kiya jaataa tha or agar is pranali ko mana jaye to gaanv main har maheene 816 rupee or shaharon main 1000 rupee se zyada kamaane vaale garibi rekha se upar uth chuke hai
 This directly means that now 27 daily in the villages
 20 rupee or shaharon main 33
 Those who spend more than 30 rupees will not be called poor
 nai garibi rekha 2011-12 kii keemton ke aadhaar par tay kii gai he
 According to this, if a five-member family living in the village spends Rs 4080 a month, it will not be considered poor
 isi tarah shahar main 5000 rupee maheenaa kharch karne vaala parivaar garib nahin kehalaayegaa
 According to new figures, now 21 in the country
 9 fisad hi garib hai
 If we talk about the number of poor, then the total number of poor in 2011-12 is 26
 93 karod ho gai he jabaki 2004-05 main ye sankhya 40
 71 crores
 film 'dhadak' kaa gaanaa pehali baar haal hi main relies kiya gaya tha
 There is a scene in the song in which Ishaan Khattar jumps into a pond to meet Jahnavi
 haal hi main gane kaa mekking video relies kiya gaya he jisamen bataaya gaya he ki jis talab main ishan koode the, asal main wo talab sanpon se bharaa hua tha
 There were many snakes in that pond which were removed from the day before the shooting
 dhadak kaa teesraa gaanaa relies, romantic andaaj main dikhe ishan-jahnavi2 minute 22 second ke is video main ishan ne bataaya ki shoot se pehle unhone shashaank khetaan se poocha tha ki bhaiya kya aapako koi idia he ki ye seen kaise hoga? is par shashaank ne unase kaha ki tumhen sochane kii jarurat nahin he, bas kud jaao
 The pond where Ishaan jumped in the song was 80 feet deep
 jis jagah par shashaank ko kudana tha uske aasapaas seediyaan thi jisamen mahaj 4 feet kaa fark tha
 The video of the song has been uploaded on Dharma Production's official youtube channel
 2 minute 22 second ke is video ab tak 40 hajaar baar dekha ja chukaa he
 Prior to this, the title track of the film and the song 'jhingat' have been released, which is getting mixed response from the people
 ise shashaank khetaan ne diarect kiya he
 It is a Hindi remake of the Marathi-language film Sairat
 jahnavi-ishan in dinon film ke pramotion main biji hai
 The craze of the 'avengers Endgame' has taken over the world
 hollywood ki film tabadatod kamai kar saare record dhwast kar rahi he
 Now it seems that Bollywood stars are also speaking with a great head of 'avengers Endgame'
 bollywood ke superstar akshay kumaar (akshay Kumar) ne ek tasviir share kii he, jo soshal media par viral ho rahi he, is viral tasviir main dekha ja saktaa he ki akshay kumaar (akshay Kumar) robert downi junior (iron Man) ke jaisi taai pahane najar aa rahe hai
 By sharing this picture, he has also written a funny caption
 ab akshay kumaar (akshay Kumar) kii is tasviir par logon ke riection aane bhi shuru ho gaye hai
 When # ironman Wears the same Tie as you !! # whoworeitbetter Ps: # endgame is out of this World xxrep 4 ? # Givenchy Tie @robertdowneyjrpic
 twitter
 com / ut50thk3sxakraya kumaar (akshay Kumar) ne tasviir share kar likhaa: "jab aayran main (iron Man) aapke jaisi hoobahoo taai pahane
 Who has worn well " akshay kumaar ne is twit main yah darshane kii koshish kii he ki robert downi junior (iron Man) ne unke jaisi taai pahani he
 He has also praised the 'avengers Endgame' in his tweet
 akshay kumaar (akshay Kumar) kaa yah twit viral ho rahaa he
 Practicing the sound of # goodnews arriving until then it's a wrap due date 6th September, 2019! # kareenakapoorkhan @ diljitdosanjh @ advani_kiara @ karanjohar @ apoorvamehta18 @ raj_a_mehta @ dharmamovies # capeofgoodfilmspic
 twitter
 com / yxefozox0t 'avengers Endgame' has collected a net collection of about 98 crores at the Indian box office
 sutron ne yah jaankaree di he
 The film is earning worldwide acclaim worldwide including India
 is film kaa logon main itnaa craij he ki logon ne pehle se hi advance tikat book kara lee he
 The film is also getting a lot of promotion from Word to Mouth
 kul milakar'avengers andgem' (evengers Endgame) ne dhamal machaa diya he
 Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president Rajnath Singh expressed concern over the current situation in the country and said that in the present conditions, a lion should be played to run the country
 singh ne bundelkhand ke atarra main yojit chunavi jansabha main kaha ki aaj hamaara desh ghotaalon kaa desh ho gaya he, jidhar dekhie ghotaale hi ghotaale najar aate hai
 According to the CAG report, there have been scams of five lakh crore rupees under Congress rule
 ab to jija ghotaalaa bhi saamne aa gaya he
 In the situation today, a lion like spirit is needed to run the country
 unhone congress par aarope lagaaya ki lambey samay tak desh par shashan karne ke baad bhi yah party berogari or mahangaai ko nahin khatm kar saki, ulte itane ghotaale lad die ki usase mahangaai bad gai
 In this context, Singh also targeted the SP and the BSP and said that these two parties have filled their pockets by supporting the Congress
 bhainson ko khojane main lagi rahati he upi pulicebijepi adhyaksh ne kaha ki agar desh main hamaari party kii sarkaar ai to ham har noujvaan ko naukari to nahin de sakenge lekin sabko prashikshan dekar aisa hunarmand bana denge ki bainkon se kam byaaj par karj lekar apana rojgaar karke apane jivan ko chalaa sakenge
 He said that when the BJP government comes, like the motor vehicles, the crop of the farmer's farm will be insured and the rivers will be connected so that the land of the farmers will not remain irrigated
 singh ne uttar pradesh main sattarudh sapa ko aade haath lete hue kaha ki soobe jangalraj he or yahaan kii police bhainson ko dhundne main lagi rahati he
 On the 125th anniversary of Swami Vivekananda's Chicago speech, Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the program at Vigyan Bhawan in Delhi
 piem modi ne is maukey par yuvaaon se sidhe samvaad kiya to vahiin new india ko lekar kai mantra die
 The PM said that those who spread dirt do not have the right to say Vande Mataram
 PM modi ke bhaashan kii 10 badi baaten
 
 
 1
 swami vivekanand kii videsh niti van asia thi, vishwa jab sankat main ghira hoga to asia kii sabko rasta dikhayega
 Today everyone says that this century will be of Asia
 2
 PM Modi gave the mantra that 'follow the rule, India will rule', which is wrong for the society, it has to be abandoned
 kya khaanaa kya nahin
 3
 college main student de manaate hai aaj roj de he aaj ye he
 
 
 Some people are against it but i am not against it
 hamane robot taiyaar nahin karne hai, hamen achche insaan chahie
 Have you ever thought that the college of Haryana should decide whether to celebrate Tamil Day today
 duusare rajyon kii samskruti apanaaen
 4
 2022 ke liye hamen nayaa sankalp lenaa hoga, jisase hamaara jivan badalanaa chahie
 Students contesting elections in politics make promises, but never say that we will keep the campus clean, then say Vande Mataram
 5
 Today people also oppose Make in India, but there was a dialogue between Vivekananda ji and Jamshed ji Tata for setting up industry in India
 kya khaanaa he, kya nahin khaanaa he ye hamaari parampara nahin he
 6
 ek baar maine bolaa tha ki pehle shauchalay, phir devalayas tab mere bal naunch die the
 But today there are many daughters who say that if not toilets, they will not marry
 7
 We are people with glory, not frogs of the well
 janashakti se bharat kii videshon se chhavi badali he
 We should move ahead with our pride
 jo beete hue kal main khoyaa rahata he, wo yuva nahin he jo aane vaale kal ke liye sochataa he wo yuva he
 8
 desh main bheekh maangane vaala insaan bhi tatv gyaan se bharaa he
 Swami ji had self-respect
 jab ham kisi acchhee jagah pahunch jaaen to kehete hai lagata nahin ki hindustan main hai
 9
 piem modi bole ki vivekanand ji ne idia ko idilism main canwart kiya
 He gave birth to the Ramakrishna Mission, but did not give birth to the Vivekananda Mission
 10
 No matter how big that recognition will be in the old times, but if it is not right in today's time, then it will have to be abandoned
 Full speech - PM Modi said on the anniversary of Chicago Speech - Those who spread dirt are not entitled to say 'vande Mataram' pradhanmantri narendra modi ke 8 november 2016 ke notebandi ke faisle kii koi sansadeey aalochana nahin kii jaaegi
 The Parliamentary Standing Committee (parliamentary Committee) on finance matters has sidelined a report due to the dominance of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party
 is report ke mutabik notebandi kaa faisla galat tha or isse desh kii jidipi ko 1 fisadi kaa nuksaan uthaanaa padaa
 It is worth noting that this Parliamentary Committee on Finance is constituted under the leadership of Congress leader Veerappa Moily and former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is included in this committee as a member
 lekin prabhavi taur par sattarudh bijepi kaa is samiti par dabadabaa he
 Due to this, under the pressure of the BJP members in the committee, this report was stopped from being presented in the House at a time when the bugle of general elections in the country is going to be held in a few months
 ise padhein: notebandi se GDP ko aise hua bada nuksaan, vishwa bank ne satellite image se kiya khulhasasmiti kii report ko adhyaksh virappa moili ne march 2018 main hari jhandi de di thi
 Despite this the report was not brought before the parliamentary committee for debate
 gauratlab he ki sansadeey samiti kaa gathan ek saal ke liye 1 sitambar 2017 main kiya gaya tha or 31 agast 2018 ko samiti kaa kaarykaal puraa ho rahaa he
 If the report of this parliamentary committee prepared on demonetisation is not discussed or proposed till the tenure of the committee, then the report will have no meaning in front of the next committee
 gauratlab he ki sansadeey samiti main bijepi ne is report kaa jamkar virodh kiya tha
 Former Prime Minister and economist Manmohan Singh has also been present in the committee that prepared this report
 sutron ke mutabik 19 march 2018 ko samiti main maujuud bijepi ke sabhi sadasyon ne ek sur main report kaa virodh kiya tha
 Read this: Is the Sultan taunting the Modi government for rejecting the uae's help on the Kerala floods, while BJP member Nishikant Dubey, who is also a financial expert, gave a written statement against the report
 apane vaktavy main doobe ne daawa kiya tha ki bijepi is baat se ittefaq nahin rakhti ki notebandi ek galat faisla tha
 At the same time, Dubey also claimed that demonetisation was a successful step and it helped in eliminating black money and promoting digital payments
 sutron ke mutabik samiti ke adhyaksh virappa moili ne is mudde par bijepi ke sadasyon se baat kii thi jisase notebandi ke faisle par taiyaar hui is report par bahes kii ja sake or prastaav laayaa ja sake
 But 17 members of BJP are present in this committee of 31 members, based on this number, the report could not be brought before the committee for debate
 gauratlab he ki yadi samiti ke adhyaksh ne is report par voting kaa rasta chunaa hota to samiti ke saamne do report pahunchi hoti or duusari report notebandi par vipareet nishkarsh saamne rakhti
 Therefore, due to lack of consensus in the last meeting of the committee, this report was not brought before the committee for debate
 bhartiya mahila tii-20 cricket team kii captain harmanpreet cor ek march ko punjab police main DSP pad par tainaat hongi
 This was possible only when the Indian Railways freed Harmanpreet from her post as the player wanted to join the Punjab Police
 mukhyamantri captain amarinder singh ne bhi is maamle ko railway mantralay ke samaksh uthaaya tha or harmanpreet ko padmukt karne ke liye unki band sharton main dheel kii baat kahi thi taaki vah punjab main DSP pad se jud saken
 Harmanpreet is a resident of Moga
 pitiai ke mutabik mukhyamantri karyaalay ke ek pravaktaa ne kaha ki railway ne sarkaar ko amarinder ke anurodh ko sweekaar karne kii soochna patr ke jariye bhej di he
 Dhoni is also colder than the blazing snow on these 4 occasions, see PHOTOS According to the bond related to Indian Railways, this cricketer could not be relieved before completing his five-year contract with him
 iske hisaab se agar vah aisa karnaa chaahati to unhen paanch saal kaa vetan lautaanaa padataa
 Harmanpreet had completed three years as Office Superintendent in Western Railway
 unhone pichley saal railway se istipha de diya tha
 Her medical examination for the post of DSP with the Punjab Police had already been completed, but the Indian Railways had not relieved her, which prevented her from joining the Punjab Police
 aakhri over main pandey par gussaye dhoni bole- oe, udhar kya dekh rahaa, idhar dekh le
 
 
 Expressing happiness over this move of the Indian Railways, the Chief Minister said that the state is proud that Harmanpreet will now be a part of its police force
 amarinder ne kendriya railway mantri piyush goyal kaa bhi shukriya adaa kiya, jinhone unka anurodh sweekaar kar liya
 The Chief Minister had offered the post of DSP to Harmanpreet in July last year after a spectacular performance in the Women's World Cup 2017
 acid phenkane kii ek ghatana main teen aropiyon ke mahila hone par ucchtam nyaayalay ne somvaar ko kaha ki mahilaayein keval sakaraatmak disha main hi nahin balki aapraadhik gatividhiyon main bhi shashakt ho rahi hai
 a vacation bench of Judge GS Singhvi and Judge CK Prasad said, 'it shows that women in the country are not only being empowered in the positive direction but also in the case of crimes'
 sheersh nyaayalay ne kaha ki padosiyon ke bich jhagada is kadar nahin bigadanaa chahie ki acid phenkane kii naubat aa jaae
 The court told the counsel for the accused RK Kapoor, 'even if you have differences with your neighbors, you cannot go to the extent of throwing acid on them
 puraa parivaar acid liye padosiyon par hamalaa kar rahaa tha’
 The Supreme Court turned down the plea of the counsel in which he said that the attack was done for self-defense as according to the records of Punjab and Haryana High Court, the five victims had gone to attack the accused
 khandpeeth ne bachaav paksh ke vakil se poocha, ‘kya aap ghar main acid taiyaar karte hai ki aapane ise peediton par hamalaa karne ke liye uplabdh paaya’
 On 31 July 2000, three women - Sindar Kaur, Pir Kaur and Mukhtiar Kaur - were convicted by the Ludhiana Sessions Court on charges of assaulting five members of a family in a property dispute and sentenced them to three years
 haalanki do janvari ko ucch nyaayalay ne mahilaon kii sajaa ko ghataakar ek saal kar diya tha or purushon kii sajaa ko do saal kar diya tha lekin mukhya abhiyukt charan singh kii sajaa chaar saal ke liye badha di
 The accused appealed to the Supreme Court for further bail
 sheersh nyaayalay ne yah tippanee karte hue sabhi aropiyon ko samarpan karne kaa nirdesh diya or kaha ki vah charan singh ke alaava anya jamaanat yachika par 28 may ko vichaar karegi
 The last match of the 3-match Test series between Team India and Sri Lanka is being played at the Ferozeshah Kotla Stadium in Delhi
 toss jitkar pehle ballebaaji karte hue team india ne 7 par 536 ran banaakar pari ghoshit kar di
 After this, the Sri Lankan team came out to bat and scored 131 runs after losing 3 wickets to stumps on the second day
 scoreboard livesrilamka ke viketssrilanka kii shuruyaat acchhee nahin rahi or pehali hi gend par ek wicket gir gaya
 Shami catches Dimuth Karunaratne by Riddhiman Saha
 5
 The second wicket also fell in 1 over
 jab ishanth sharma ne dhananjay disilva ko elbeadblu kar diya
 The third wicket was of Dilruwan Perera (42), when 18
 4 over main rabindra jadeja ne unhen elbeadblu kar diya
 After the smog, Kohli declared that Sri Lankan players stopped the game 4 times during India's first day of the second innings of the innings test
 unki shikaayat thi ki unhen saans lene main dikkat ho rahi he
 Symptoms came to over after Dilruwan Perera's 127th over
 us vakt field par srilanka ke keval 10 khilaadi the
 It was only 5 balls from this over that Chandimal stopped the game after that
 baari drame ke bich bharat ne firozshah kotla maidan par khele ja rahe tisare test match ke duusare din ravivaar ko duusare satr main apni pehali pari saat wicket par 536 ranon par ghoshit kar di
 On the way to the ground, the spectators present at the stadium hooted the Sri Lankan team and looted them as losers
 team india kii ore se viraat kohli ne 243 ran banaae jabaki murali vijay ne 155 ranon kii pari kheli
 Kohli made history, Kohli started from 156 runs on the second day and also completed his sixth Test double century in a short time
 isi ke saath hi unhone captain ke taur par sabase zyada dohare shatak lagane ke maamle main westeindies ke diggaj bryan lara ke world record ko peeche chhod diya he
 The Indian captain was dismissed for 243 runs (25 fours) off 287 balls
 isse pehle nagpur main khele gaye duusare test match main viraat kohli ne 5waan doharaa shatak lagaaya tha or bataur captain sabase zyada dohare shatak lagane ke maamle main bryan lara ke saath sanyukt rup se pehle number par pahunch gaye the
 But in Delhi, he surpassed Lara's record
 lara ke naam bataur captain test main 5 dohare shatak hai
 Kohli's Virat Record Team India captain Virat Kohli has completed his 5000 runs in Test cricket
 srilanka ke tej gendbaaj suranga lackmal par chauke ke saath 25 ran ke aankade ko paar karte hi kohli ne yah uplabdhi hasil kii
 He is the 11th Indian batsman to achieve this feat
 kohli ne apni 105veen pari main yah karnama kiya
 India's record of scoring 5000 Test runs in the lowest innings is held by former veteran opener Sunil Gavaskar, who touched the figure in 95 innings
 bharat ke liye kohli se kam pariyon main 5000 test ran gavaskar ke alaava virendra sahvaag (99) or sachin tendulkar (103) ne banaae hai
 The record of scoring 5000 runs in the shortest innings in Test cricket is in the name of legendary Australian batsman Don Bradman, who achieved this feat in just 56 innings
 unke alaava test cricket ke itihaas main koi ballebaaj 90 pariyon main bhi 5000 ran nahin bana paaya he
 Murali Vijay scored 155 runs Murali Vijay made a brilliant batting, scoring the 11th century of his Test career
 vijay ne apni 155 ranon kii pari main 13 chauke lagaae
 Earlier, in the second Test match of the series held in Nagpur, he scored 128 runs with a century
 vijay ne ranjai trophy main tamilnadu kii ore se khelte hue unhone oreisha ke khilaaf katak main 140 ran banaakar test main vaapasi kii thi
 Shikhar Dhawan then took leave from Nagpur Test due to personal reasons
 kul milakar vijay ne 53 test main 11veen sanchuri banaai he
 Team India's wicket-team India did not have a good start, and the first wicket fell at the score of 42 runs
 9
 In 6 overs, Shikha Dhawan (23) was caught by Suranga Lakmal off the ball of Dilruwan Perera
 bharat ko doosraa jhatka 20
 Scored to a score of 78 in 2 overs
 jab lahiru gamage kii gend par sadira samarvikrama ne cheteshwar pujaara (23) ko kaich kar liya
 The third wicket of the team fell to a score of 361 when Murali Vijay (155) was stumped out by Wicketkeeper Dickwella
 iske baad ballebaaji ke liye aae ajinkya rahane (1) ko bhi rangika ne dikavela ke haathon stump out kara kar bharat ko chauthaa jhatka diya
 Rohit 117, just before lunch on the second day
 5 over main sandakan kii gend par dikavela ko kaich de baithe
 After this, the wicket of Ravinchadran Ashwin (4) fell
 isi bich captain kohli bhi apane test kariyar ke sarvshereshth score 243 ranon par lakshan sandakan kii gend elbeadblu qaraar de die gaye
 The Indian team has won the last 8 Test series under the leadership of Kohli and if they also draw this Test played in Delhi, then they will win Australia's world record of winning 9 consecutive Test series
 Will match 2014-15 main australia ke khilaaf unki hi dharti par 0-2 se siries ganvaane ke baad viraat brigade lagaataar 8 test siries jitkar itihaas rachane kii dahalij par khadi he
 Team India has won five series in India, two in Sri Lanka and one in the West Indies during this period
 ganguli ke record kii barabari karenge kohliviraat kohli ke paas is match main jeet ke saath bharat ke duusare sabase safal captain ke rup main saurav ganguli kii barabari karne kaa mauka hoga
 India, led by Ganguly, recorded 21 wins from 49 matches, while Kohli-led India has recorded 20 wins from 31 matches so far
 captain ke rup main in donon se adhik jeet sirf dhoni (60 maichon main 27 jeet) ke naam darj hai
 a live video has surfaced of the murder of Sri Krishna, the father of infamous gangster Manjit Mahal of Delhi NCR
 jisamen saaf dikh rahaa he ki do din pehle scorpiyo car main savaar hokar aae badmaashon ne car main baithe baithe hi un par goliyaan chalaai thi
 When the bullet did not hit them properly, the miscreants got down from the car and shot them from close range
 darasal, do din pehle yani 29 janvari ko najafagarh ke mitrau mengangustermanjit mahal ke pita shrikrishna kii goli maar kar hatya kar di gai thi
 The police is looking at this murderous incident involving gangs
 police ko is hatya kii jaanch ke dauraan ek sisitivi footage haath laga he
 In which the whole incident of murder is imprisoned
 sisitivi footage main dikh rahaa he ki najafagarh ke mitrau ilaake main hamalavar ek safed scorpiyo car main savaar hokar aae the
 He opened fire on the gangster's father Sri Krishna, who was sitting outside his house
 jab badmaashon ko laga ki shrikrishna ko goli thik se nahin lagi he, to do shooter car se neeche utre or shrikrishna ko paas jakargolionse bhun daalaa
 It is clear in the footage that the days go by in a big way to carry out this incident of murderer killing
 police do din se is maamle kii gambhirtha se jaanch padtaal kar rahi he
 The police is smelling of gang war behind this murder
 mritak shrikrishna nami gangster manjit mahal ke pita the
 Manjit Mahal is accused of killing Bharat Singh, a former MLA from Najafgarh and is currently in jail
 gangster manjit singh kii kai saalon se gangster kishan pahalwaan se dushmani chali aa rahi he
 This is the reason why the police is looking at this massacre by linking them with the enmity of these two
 haalanki police is maamle main duusare kuch badmaash bhi police ke radar par hai
 Police suspect that in the coming days, the result of this gang war may be seen in Najafgarh and adjoining areas
 isi ke maddenjar police ilaake main chaukasee barat rahi he
 The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has named P
V
 ke
 Sethi and others have attached assets worth Rs 23 crore
 idi is maamle main ab tak 107 karod rupee kii sampatti kurk kar chuki he
 According to sources, Sethi is the head of a chit fund company in Odisha
 rajya kii siaidi ne farji chit fund skim kaa jhansa dekar logon ko thagne ke aarope main sethi ko giraftaar kiya gaya tha
 Attacking the Congress indirectly, Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi claimed on Sunday that 80 percent of the country's history had become a family saga, while many great personalities were forgotten due to 'political bias'
 parsi samudaay se jude ek pradarshnee kaarykram kaa udghaatan karte hue nakvi ne kaha ki in mahaan logon ko phir se nai peedi ke liye preranarot banane kii jarurat he, jinhone raashtra nirmaan main mahatvapurn yogadan diya
 The comments unhone kaha, 'raashtra ke nirmaan or desh kii vijay gaatha kii un mahaan hastiyon ko nai peedi ke liye adarsh evam prerana kaa strot banane kii jarurat he, jinako raajnneetik purvaagrah ke kaaran bhula diya gaya
 The Minister said that efforts will be made in the coming days that the glorious history of minority communities should reach the people
 (is khabar ko enditivi team ne sampadit nahin kiya he
 This is published directly from the Syndicate feed)
 parsi samudaay se jude ek pradarshnee kaarykram kaa udghaatan karte hue nakvi ne kaha ki in mahaan logon ko phir se nai peedi ke liye preranarot banane kii jarurat he, jinhone raashtra nirmaan main mahatvapurn yogadan diya
 The comments unhone kaha, 'raashtra ke nirmaan or desh kii vijay gaatha kii un mahaan hastiyon ko nai peedi ke liye adarsh evam prerana kaa strot banane kii jarurat he, jinako raajnneetik purvaagrah ke kaaran bhula diya gaya
 The Minister said that efforts will be made in the coming days that the glorious history of minority communities should reach the people
 (is khabar ko enditivi team ne sampadit nahin kiya he
 This is published directly from the Syndicate feed)
 unhone kaha, 'raashtra ke nirmaan or desh kii vijay gaatha kii un mahaan hastiyon ko nai peedi ke liye adarsh evam prerana kaa strot banane kii jarurat he, jinako raajnneetik purvaagrah ke kaaran bhula diya gaya
 The Minister said that efforts will be made in the coming days that the glorious history of minority communities should reach the people
 (is khabar ko enditivi team ne sampadit nahin kiya he
 This is published directly from Syndicate Feed) (NDTV team has not edited this news
 yah syndicate feed se sidhe prakashit kii gai he) After telling people about 996, now Alibaba founder Jack Ma has given another mantra
 ye mantra he 669 yani hafte ke 6 din main 6 baar sex (sex for six day, six times)
 Earlier Jack Ma worked 996 i
e
 9 am to 9 pm 6 days a week (9 am to 9 pm, six days a week at workplace)
 daily mail kii report ke mutabik china ke sabase amir aadamiyon main se ekajac maa ne ye 669 kii salaah company staff kii group wedding ke dauraan di
 He said that we emphasize on 996 at the time of work
 vahiin, personal life main hamen 669 follow karnaa chahie
 This dog teaches the child, wandering here and there gives such punishment
 
 
 dekhen videoisa saal china main 10 may ko 'ali de' (ali Day) manaaya gaya
 Every year on this day, the staff of the company marries in Hangzhou (hangzhou), Alibaba's headquarters
 isi maas wedding ke dauraan 54 saal ke jaik ne couples ko ye salaah di
 Let me tell you, Jack Ma that the 996 Philosophy was severely criticized by the Tech Industry
 delivery ke dauraan maa kii hui maut, 5 maheene baad tasveeron main nazar ai parchaai
 
 
 Photos Viral At the same time, 669 also became quite viral on social media
 logon ne caments kar hafte ke 6 din main 6 baar sex karne kii baat ko bhadda bataaya
 One user said that after working from 9 am to 9 pm, who has the power to have sex on this earth 6 times 6 days? Video of world's deepest sea surface, shown 11km below the Pacific Ocean , Jack Ma, one of China's richest men, is the founder of China's e-commerce company Alibaba
 jaik maa kii sangharsh kii kahanikaphi prasiddh he
 Many books have also been published on Jack Ma's life
 isamen unke kai companiyon main naukari naa milane se lekar or phir china kii sabase badi i-commers company kholane ke sangharsh kii kahani ke bare main bataaya gayaahai
 Apart from this, Jack Ma is also known for his motivational ideas
 Uttarakhand Subordinate Service Selection commissionne forest Guard(van rakshak) ke padon ke liye notification jari kiya he
 All the candidates are requested to read all the necessary information related to employment before applying for this government job
 santhaan kaa namgauttarchand Subordinate Service Selection Commission (uksssc)8veen paas ke liye yahaan nikali sarkari naukari, jald karen aavedanpadon kii sankhya1218rikt padon kaa namseorest Guard (van rakshak)cochin Shipyard Ltd main 10veen paas ke liye he vaikency, jald karen aavedintim taarikh23 sitambar 2017yogyatakisi bhi manyata praapt santhaan se krishi yaa vigyaan main 12veen kaksha paas kii ho
 Age: The candidate should be between 18 to 24 years old
 RBI main nikali in padon par vaikency, ek lakh hogi selary
 
 
 The selection process will be based on the written examination
 aavedan kaise karenavedan karne ke liye ummidavaar neeche di gayi oficial website www
 ukpsc
 gov
 can be done by going to in
 dilli sarkaar bhale hi bajet par apni peeth thapthapa rahi ho, lekin congress ne is bajet par tikhaa hamalaa bolaa he
 All the leaders who have been ministers in the Congress government have called the AAP government's budget a sham from the public
 dilli congress adhyaksh ajay maakan ne hamalaa bolte hue kaha ki dilli kaa bajet puri tarah se chhalaava he
 30% of the previous budget is still not spent
 unhone kaha ki har saal bajet ko nayaa naam diya jaataa he kabhi swaraj bajet, kabhi od-evan bajet, kabhi outkam bajet or is baar ise green bajet bolaa gaya he lekin ye sarkaar sirf naam rakh paati he
 Maken said that not a single DTC bus has been purchased in Delhi in the last 3 years, pollution has increased continuously in Delhi, no new work has been done in the field of education, millions of children have been away from school
 shiksha ke mudde par lavali kaa warpurv shiksha mantri arvinder singh lavali ne shiksha ke bajet par dilli sarkaar ko jamkar gheraa or kaha ki sarkaar lakh daawey karen lekin asaliyat kuch or he
 Lovely said that millions of children have failed in tenth-twelfth
 hamaari sarkaar main har saal 34 skool banate the, lekin kejariwal sarkaar mahaj 14 skool bana paati he
 On the condition of the schools, Lovely said that principal-vice Principal in 53 schools are acting as Ad Hoc
 nursery admician ke liye 2
 a budget of 5 crores was kept, but the expenditure was only 5 lakhs
 ham class room main sisitivi camere lagane kaa virodh karte hai
 1 / 3 of the teachers in Delhi are lying vacant, but no action has been taken
 3 saal main ek bhi bas nahin kharidi- haaron usufdilli ke purv parivahan mantri haaron yusuf ne sarkaar kii parivahan policy or bajet par talkh tippanee kii
 He said, have Arvind Kejriwal and Manish Sisodia met the motorcycle industry? Because no bus has been purchased for the last three years
 metro kii rydership 30 lakh se 25 lakh tak aa gai he
 The metro phase is running three-three years late
 paryaavaran bajet sirf chhalaava- walise bajet main jis baat kii sabase zyada charchaa thi vah thi paryaavaran or yahi vajah rahi ki ise green bajet kaha gaya
 But on the issue of environment too, Kiran Walia, a former minister in the Congress government, strongly condemned this government
 kiran walia ne kaha ki jab dilli pradooshan se jujh rahi thi tab kejariwal punjab main gum rahe the
 People are now back in their trains from the metro, Delhi has been piled up
 nagar nigam ko paise nahin die ja rahe he
 Rare picture of Nawada Sadar Hospital in Bihar where patients do not get beds but dogs take rest by occupying beds
 yahan ke saansad sah kendriya mantri hindustaniyon ko pakistan bhejne main mast or pradesh ke swasthya mantri duusare desh-pradesh ghumne or mouj masti main vyast he
 pic
 twitter
 com / nqtudcnluz Former Bihar Deputy Chief Minister and RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav lashed out at the Nitish government over the incident
 tejasvi ne tanj kasate hue twit kiya, bihar ke navada sadar aspataal kii durlabh tasviir, jahaan marijon ko bed nahin milte lekin kute bed par kabja kar aaraam faramaate hai
 The MP and Union Minister here are busy sending Hindustani to Pakistan and the State Health Minister is busy traveling to other countries and states
 udhar, marijon ke bed par kutton ke sone kii photo viral hone ke baad aspataal prashasan bhi harakat main aa gaya
 Civil Surgeon Dr
 umesh chandra ne kaha ki is ghatana ke liye koun jimmedaar he or yah kiski laaparvaahee se hua he isaki jaanch kii ja rahi he
 Action will be taken against anyone found guilty
 a post shared by Anushka Sharma FC (@anushkafcs) on Mar 19, 2018 at 7:14am PDTA post shared by(@anushka
 army) on Mar 19, 2018 at 10:30 am PDTA post shared by (@varundhawan
 club) on Mar 19, 2018 at 1:45am PDTA post shared by anushkasharma1588 (@anushkasharma) on Mar 18, 2018 at 7:35am PDT In Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal Lok Sabha seat (election 2019), the contest between veteran Congress leader Digvijay Singh and bjp's Pragya Thakur has reached such a peak
 isi bich digvijay singh computer baba ke saath puja kii he
 According to the news agency ANI, Digvijay Singh sat at the place to worship where the commuter Baba along with thousands of sadhus would hold a hathayoga for Digvijay Singh
 aapako bataa den ki madhya pradesh main computer baba ko shivaraj singh chouhan kii sarkaar main mantri kaa darja mila hua tha lekin baad main manmutav ke chalate sarkaar se baahar aa gaye the
 It seems that Digvijay Singh has to resort to hatha yoga to face the fierce Hindutva of Pragya Thakur
 haalanki pragna thakur kuch bayanon ne bijepi ko kaaphi asahaj sthiti main laa diya he or party ke netaaon ne pragna thakur ko samajhaayaa he kya bolnaa he or kya nahin bolnaa he
 While Pragya Thakur has faced a ban of 72 hours from the Election Commission, another notice has also been issued on the complaint of campaigning after the ban
 bhopal sansadeey kshetra ke itihaas par najar daudai jaae to pataa chalata he ki varsh 1984 ke baad se yahaan bhaajapa kaa kabja he
 In the 16 elections held so far, the Congress has won six times
 bhopal main 12 may ko matdaan hone vaala he
 Bhopal parliamentary constituency has 19
5 million voters, including four lakh Muslims, three and a half lakh Brahmins, four and half lakh backward classes, two lakh Kayasthas and 1
25 lakh Kshatriyas
 matadaataaon ke isi ganit ko dhyaan main rakhkar congress ne digvijay singh ko maidan main utaara tha, magar bhaajapa ne pragna thakur ko ummidavaar banaakar dhruvikaran kaa daanv khelaa he
 Bhopal: Congress leader Digvijaya Singh performs 'pooja' in the presence of Computer Baba, at the venue where he is camping along with thousands of sadhus to undertake Hat Yog
 pic
 twitter
 com / 8lfhaedzawbopala sansadeey kshetra main vidhansabha kii aath siten aati hai
 In the assembly elections held about four months ago, BJP won five out of eight and Congress three
 lihaaja sarkaar main badlaav ke baad bhi bhopal sansadeey kshetra ke vidhansabha kshetron main bhaajapa ko congress ke mukaable zyada safalataa mili thi
 Digvijay Singh too had already sensed the change in political atmosphere due to Pragya's presence, which is why he issued a video message welcoming Pragya
 singh swayan jahaan khulkar pragna par hamalaa karne se batch rahe hai, vahiin kaaryakartaaon ko bhi isi tarah kii hidaayaten de rahe hai
 Singh realizes that the Malegaon bomb blasts and Pragya are attacked directly if the electoral direction changes
 singh bhopal ke vikaas kaa road map or apane kaarykaal main kiye gaye kaamon kaa byoraa de rahe hanummidavaari ghoshit hone ke baad pragna ke mizaaj talkh hone lage hai or matadaataaon ko bhaavnaatmak taur par lubhaane main jute gai he
 He accused the Congress of being anti-hindu and at the same time made references to Hindutva terrorism and saffron terrorism and started giving details of police harassment after being accused of Malegaon bomb blast
 ve logon ke bich bhavuk bhi ho rahi hai
 On the one hand, Pragya has started to advance her campaign and on the other hand Congress leaders are also responding in their own way
 rajya ke ucch shiksha mantri jitu patawaari ne digvijay singh ko raajnneetik sant bataate hue kaha, "digvijay singh ne hidutv ko jiyaa he, maanavtaa kii seva kii he, narmada nadi kii parikrama kii he
 He is indeed a saint of politics
 "jaankaron kii maane to bhopal ke chunaav main dhruvikaran kii sambhaavna ko nakaara nahin ja saktaa
 Every effort will be made by the Congress to prevent polarization in some way, Digvijay Singh is going to build his image by going to religious places himself, and on the other hand BJP has started calling Digvijay Singh as Muslim pro-muslim and anti-hindu
 vahiin pragna ko congress dwaara satai gai hindu mahila ke rup main prastut kiya ja rahaa he
 Know here what was the condition of Tech world throughout the day ham yahaan aapako technology kii duniya kii 5 badi khabaren de rahe hai, neeche die gaye links par clic kar vistaar se pard sakate hai hamaari puri khabar
 
 
 whatsapp Pay will soon launch in India, will spark like Google Pay Dhoom whatsapp global head Will Cathcart came to Delhi for the first time
 nai dilli main yojit ek event main whatsapp head or NITI Ayog ke chairman amitabh kaant maujuud rahe
 The focus of this event was on how whatsapp is connecting people in whatsapp India
 iske alaava whatsapp Business ke saxes ke bare main bataaya gaya
 These are the three smartphones of Xiaomi, which can come to indiachinese smartphone maker Xiaomi Xiaomi has recently launched two new smartphones in India
 Redmi K20, Redmi K20 Pro is siries ke flagship smartfones hai
 Recently Xiaomi has launched Android One based smartphone Mi A3 in another market
 ise ukraine main bhi launch kar diya gaya he
 IIT Madras professor told HC, "trace can be whatsapp message works on whatsapp and to end encryption
" yani iske dwaara kii gai baatcheet (chats) na to ye company pard sakati he or na hi koi third person yaa agency
 It also cannot be traced
 lekin iaiti madras ke ek professor ne daawa kiya he ki whatsapp or Facebook ke massej kaa origin tres kar paanaa mumkin he
 Sony has developed a pocket size AC, it will get from the scorching heat, many times during the summer days you would have thought that i wish there was an ac-like device that can be kept with you at all times
 ab sapane jaisi lagane vaali is cheez ko hakeekat main badalane kii taiyaari ho rahi he
 According to a video posted by the South China Morning Post, Sony has developed a 'wearable' air-conditioner and launched a crowdfunding project for this device
 Redmi smartphone ke baad taiyaar ho jaaen ab Redmi TV ke liechini tech company Xiaomi philhal bharat main mobile, accessories, or duusare home products launch karti he
 There is also Xiaomi TV whose response is getting very good in India
 aapako bataa den ki Redmi ko Xiaomi ke sab brands ke taur par shuru kiya he
 Many smartphones have also been launched under Redmi
 rajasthan royles (RR) or sunrisers hyderabad (SRH) ke bich ipel sijan 12 kaa 45waan muqabla aaj (shanivaar) raat 8 baje se jaipur ke savai maansingh stadium main khelaa jayega
 Both the teams will play against each other in this match without their important foreign players
 is samay rajasthan royles kii team sunrisers hyderabad kii tulana main zyada majboot dikh rahi he kyonki uske paas ben stokes or jose butler nahin hai jo vishwa cap shivi se judane se liye england ravaanaa ho chuke hai
 Apart from this, Jofra Archer will also not be a part of Rajasthan Royals team
 sunrisers hyderabadayderabad ko nishchit rup se apane visphotak salaami ballebaaj or england ke johny beresto kii sevaaon kii kami khalegi jo david warner ke saath milakar majboot salaami jodi banaate the
 Things will get tough for both teams when Australian players Warner and Royals captain Steve Smith leave for home next week
 points teble main hyderabad kii team 10 main se paanch match jitkar behatar sthaan par he jabaki rajasthan ne 11 main se keval chaar hi match jite hai
 But these too remain in the race for the playoff spot
 olerounder archer ne guuruuvaar ko rajasthan ko keker par romaanchak jeet dilaai thi or unki kaaphi kami mahasoos hogi
 Rajasthan will miss a lot due to the departure of the three England players, but the form of Ajinkya Rahane and Smith is a positive sign for them
 hyderabad kii team videshi khilaadiyon kii anupasthiti se kaaphi asar padegaa, lekin unhen inaki jagah khilaadiyon ko utaarne main thodaa smart hona hoga
 Warner will play his last match of the season on 29 April against Kings XI Punjab, he can be replaced by Martin Guptill
 rajasthan roylsrajasthan ke liye is baar kii khoj assam kaa 17 saal kaa khilaadi riyaan paraag rahaa he jisane balle or gend se behtareen pratibha dikhaai he
 He scored 47 off 31 balls against KKR and led Rajasthan to victory in a difficult situation
 sanju samson bhi acchhee form main hai or rahul treepathi ne bhi salaami ballebaaj ke sthaan par ardhashatak jadaa
 Ashton Turner and Lian Livingstone have not been able to prove themselves and will have to improve their game
 mejabaanon ke liye gendbaaji sabase badi chintaa hogi kyonki deth overon main archer sabase prabhavi gendbaaj the
 However, Varun Aaron also looked effective against KKR who took two wickets for 20 runs and the Man of the Match award boosted his confidence
 oshane thomas kaa pradarshan bhi thik rahaa
 The hosts will expect Dhawal Kulkarni and Jaydev Unadkat to keep the rival team under control
 timen:rajasthan:ajinkya rahane, krishnappa gautam, sanju samson, shreyas gopal, aryaman birla, es
 Midhun, Prashant Chopra, Stuart Binny, Rahul Tripathi, Steve Smith (captain), Jofra Archer, Ish Sodhi, Dhawal Kulkarni, Mahipal Lomror, Jaydev Unadkat, Varun Aaron, Oshen Thomas, Shashank Singh, Liam Livingstone, Shubham Ranjane, Manan Vohra, Ashton Turner, Ryan Pollen
 hyderabad:bhubaneshwar kumaar, david warner, abhishek sharma, johny beresto, khalil ahamed, riki bhui, basil thampi, shrivats goswami, martin gaptil, deepak hooda, siddharth kaul, mohammad nabi, shahabaaz nadeem, tii
 Natarajan, Manish Pandey, Yusuf Pathan, Rashid Khan, Riddhiman Saha, Sandeep Sharma, Vijay Shankar, Shakib Al Hasan and Billy Stanlake
 mumbai par hue aatanki hamale main jinda pakade gaye ek maatr aatanki ajmal kasaab ke pakistani naagarik hone kii baat aakhir pakistan ne maan hi lee
 However, double statements are coming from Pakistan regarding this
 ek taraf to vah maan rahaa he ki kasaab uskaa naagarik he vahiin duusari ore isak khandan bhi kar rahaa he
 Now Pakistan Foreign Ministry has again confessed that Kasab is a citizen of Pakistan
 pakistan ke soochna mantri sheri rahamaan ne is baat kii pushti kii he
 Rehman has informed about this through Aaj Tak
 isse pehle buudhvaar ko hi pakistani media main khabaren ai thi ki pakistan sarkaar kii shuruaati jaanch main kasaab ke paak naagarik hone kii baat saamne ai he
 Pakistan retracted shortly thereafter
 pakistan videsh mantralay ke pravaktaa mohammad sadik ne kaha tha ki bhram ke chalate media main aisi khabaren aa rahi hai or abhi kuch bhi kahana jaldbaaji hogi
 He also said that the investigation about Kasab is still going on
 pakistan ke jeeyo tivi or don news ne sarkari sutron ke hawaale se khabar di thi ki pakistan ne maan liya he ki kasaab vahiin kaa rahane vaala he
 Pakistan is facing heavy international pressure in this matter and is making fresh statements every day
 lekin ab jab pakistan sarkaar ne kasaab ke pakistani naagarik hone kii baat kubul kar lee he to ise bharat kii badi kootnithik safalataa mana ja saktaa he
 Earlier, Kasab's father and his villagers have also recognized him
 pruthak telugana rajya ke gathan ke faisle ko lekar congress ke bheetar hi halaat bekaabu hote ja rahe hai
 Seven mps belonging to the party's Andhra and Rayalaseema regions, a minister of state and legislators have resigned amid indications that some more leaders may join the list
 haalanki party chaar kendriya mantriyon ko istife jaisaa kadam uthaane se rokane main manaane main safal rahi he
 Human Resource Development Minister Pallam Raju is among the ministers who offered to resign but has been asked to continue in the post
 tippaniyan Angered by the party's decision taken on Tuesday, seven Congress members and four ministers from Andhra and Rayalaseema regions had a long meeting late last night to strategize against the Telangana decision
 iske baad chah loksabhaa sadsy or ek rajyasabha sadsy subah sansad gaye or unhone apane istife saunp die
 The Lok Sabha members who have submitted their resignations include A
 Sai Pratap (rajampet constituency), Anant Venkatarami Reddy (anantapur), CV Harshakumar (amalapuram-secured), Vundapalli Arun Kumar (rajamundari), Lagadapati Rajagopal (vijayawada) and SPY Reddy (nandyal) ) Are included
 unhone apane istife loksabhaa mahasachiv tike vishvanathan ko saunp die
 However, the party has been successful in persuading the four union ministers to take steps like resignation
 maanav sansaadhan vikaas mantri pallam raju un mantriyon main shaamil hai jinhone istife kii peshkash kii thi lekin unhen pad par bane rahane ko kaha gaya he
 The comments mangalvaar ko liye gaye party ke faisle se naaraaz andhra or roilseema kshetron ke saat congressi sadasyon or chaar mantriyon ne beeti der raat telugana ke faisle ke khilaaf ranneeti banane ke liye lambii baithak kii thi
 After this, six Lok Sabha members and one Rajya Sabha member went to Parliament in the morning and submitted their resignations
 jin loksabhaa sadasyon ne apane istife die hai unamem e sai pratap (rajampet nirvachan kshetra), anant venkatrami reddy (anantpur), sivi hasharkumar (amalpuram- surakshit), wundapalli arun kumaar (rajamundari), lagadpati rajagopal (vijaywada) or espivai reddy (nandayal) shaamil hai
 He submitted his resignation to Lok Sabha Secretary General TK Vishwanathan
 mangalvaar ko liye gaye party ke faisle se naaraaz andhra or roilseema kshetron ke saat congressi sadasyon or chaar mantriyon ne beeti der raat telugana ke faisle ke khilaaf ranneeti banane ke liye lambii baithak kii thi
 After this, six Lok Sabha members and one Rajya Sabha member went to Parliament in the morning and submitted their resignations
 jin loksabhaa sadasyon ne apane istife die hai unamem e sai pratap (rajampet nirvachan kshetra), anant venkatrami reddy (anantpur), sivi hasharkumar (amalpuram- surakshit), wundapalli arun kumaar (rajamundari), lagadpati rajagopal (vijaywada) or espivai reddy (nandayal) shaamil hai
 He submitted his resignation to Lok Sabha Secretary General TK Vishwanathan
 iske baad chah loksabhaa sadsy or ek rajyasabha sadsy subah sansad gaye or unhone apane istife saunp die
 The Lok Sabha members who have submitted their resignations include A
 Sai Pratap (rajampet constituency), Anant Venkatarami Reddy (anantapur), CV Harshakumar (amalapuram-secured), Vundapalli Arun Kumar (rajamundari), Lagadapati Rajagopal (vijayawada) and SPY Reddy (nandyal) ) Are included
 unhone apane istife loksabhaa mahasachiv tike vishvanathan ko saunp die
 Satyendra Jain, one of the powerful ministers of Delhi's Kejriwal government, appeared before the officials at the Income Tax office on Tuesday, surrounded by questions of referring crores of rupees through private companies
 inakam tex daphtar main poochtacha kaa silsilaa kareeb 3 ghante tak chalaa
 Currently, the Aam Aadmi Party has declared the summation of income tax as a conspiracy of the central government
 'satyendra jain kaa samarthan karne ke liye 'aap' netaa sanjay singhinakam taxdaphtar tak gaye, unke saath pravaktaa ashutosh bhi puure vaqt inakam tex daphtar ke baahar maujuud rahe
 In a special conversation with 'aaj Tak', Sanjay Singh said that 'satyendra Jain is counted among the most honest ministers of Delhi Government
 jinhone fliover banane main karodon rupye bachaae
 Their crime is that they worked honestly
 inhen sajaa di ja rahi he or ye raajnneetik badale kii bhaavana se kii gai karrwai he
 Sanjay Singh further accused the government that in 5 years, Satyendra Jain invested 32 lakh rupees in the company, which is honest money
 inakam tex ke ritern main bhi dikhaaya
 The whole country knows who is filing fake cases against our mlas
 arvind kejariwal tak par farji cese kar diya gaya
 The government sitting at the center is taking action against the minister and legislators with a sense of revenge
 ''inakam tex main poochtacha ke baadasatyendra jainane puri karrwai ko raajnneetik or jhootha bataaya
 Jain said that 'income tax is called because i want to discredit me in politics
 2007 se lekar 2012 ke bich maine architect rahete jo paisa kamaaya tha uskaa hisaab inakam tex ritern main dikhaaya he
 But asked me questions about people whom i do not even know
 ' mantri satyendra jain ne safai dete hue kaha ki "mujhe gavaah kii tarah bulaayaa gaya tha
 Do not discredit me by calling me a scammer or hawker
 ' Prime Minister Narendra Modi may address the nation on Thursday on the decision to divide Jammu and Kashmir into two parts and remove Article 370
 sutron ne yah jaankaree di he
 The last time Prime Minister Modi addressed the country was on March 27, when India successfully shot down a live satellite while successfully testing an anti-satellite missile
 us vakt desh main aachaar samhita lagu thi or 11 april se 17veen loksabhaa ke liye chunaav hone the
 Parliament on Tuesday lifted the privilege granted to Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 of the Constitution
 saath hi jammu-kashmir or ladakh ke rup main baantne vaale bill ko bhi manjuuri de di
 Before this, Prime Minister Modi had to address the country on 7 August
 lekin purv videsh mantri sushamaa swaraj ke nidhan ke baad ise sthagit karnaa padaa
 watershed moment
 ekta or akhandta ke liye sara desh ekajute
 Jai Hind! It is a moment of pride for our parliamentary democracy, where historical bills related to Jammu and Kashmir have been passed with heavy support
 — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi)august 6, 2019main jammu-kashmir kii bahanon or bhaaiyon ke saahas or jazbe ko salaam karata hum
 For years some selfish elements acted as emotional blackmailing, misleading people and ignoring development
 jammu-kashmir or ladakh ab aise logon ke changul se aaazaad he
 a new dawn, a better tomorrow is ready! Announced it after it was passed in both houses of parliament
 anuchhed 370 ke kaaran jammu-kashmir ko vishesh rajya kaa darja mila hua tha
 Article 370 and Article 35A jointly clarified that the residents of the state live in separate laws from the citizens of other states of India
 in niyamon main naagarikta, sampatti kaa malikana haq or mul kartavya the
 Due to this article, citizens of other states of the country were prohibited from buying property in Jammu and Kashmir
 haalanki congress or kai vipakshi partiyon ne sarkaar ke is faisle kaa virodh kiya
 In view of the removal of this article, more than 35000 personnel have been deployed in Jammu and Kashmir
 khud enese ajit dobhaal ghati main morcha sanbhale hue hai
 The separatists and other local leaders have been placed under house arrest
 kisi bhi apriy ghatana se bachane ke liye khaastaur par intjaam kiye gaye hai
 The late night car chase of Varnika Kundu on the streets of Chandigarh is yet to calm down that another such case has come to light
 yah maamla haryana ke gurugram kaa he
 a 25-year-old working girl was chased by some boys in her car while she was on her way back home from office
 ve use lagaataar rokane kii koshish karte rahe or us par chillaate rahe
 Read: 'I am lucky that i was not raped, nor was i found dead
 
 
 ' The girl was on a scooter and shortly after leaving the office at midnight, she found some people chasing her
 in ladakon ne uskaa teen kilometre tak peechha kiya
 The girl went to the police station but could not remember the car number
 ladki ko number kaa sirf yah hissaa yaad rahaa- "HR-57" Read: Vikas Barala confesses to chase Varnika Kundu in Chandigarh molestation case - sources vah baad main subah police kamishnar sandip khirvaar ke offis pahunchi or shikaayat darj karwaai
 Police have registered a case of chase but police say they cannot do anything special before getting CCTV footage
 vahiin, chandigarh main varnika kundu kaa maamla ab tool pakad chukaa he
 Vikas Barala and his friend are to be produced today in connection with the alleged chase of a girl in Chandigarh by the son of Haryana BJP President Subhash Barala
 is bich sutron ke hawaale se khabar he ki vikaas baraala ne police kii poochtacha main varnika kundu kii car kaa peechha karne kii baat qabool kar lee he
 The victim has alleged that Vikas Barala and his friend Ashish Kumar were chasing her car from a petrol pump and then tried to stop the car
 tippaniyan Video- Accused arrested after pressure in Chandigarh molestation case do baar inamen se ek aadmi apni gaadi se niklaa or usne car kaa daravaaza kholane kii koshish kii
 Meanwhile, the police reached there after several calls from the girl and arrested both the boys
 peedita ke pita ne fasebuk par likhaa, ‘agar ham doshiyon ko nyaay ke kathghare main laane ke liye prayasarat nahin rahete hai to or adhik betiyaan yah aghat sahengi
 ' padhein: 'main khushkismat hum ki meraa rape nahin hua, na hi main mari pai gai
 
 
 ' ladki scooter par thi or aadhi raat ko offis se nikalne ke kuch samay baad hi usne paaya ki kuch log uskaa peechha kar rahe hai
 These boys followed him for three kilometers
 ladki police stesan gai lekin vah car kaa number yaad nahin kar pai
 The girl remembered only this part of the number- "HR-57" padhein: chandigarh chhedchhad cese main vikaas baraala ne varnika kundu kaa peechha karne kii baat kabuuli- sutara She later reached the office of Police Commissioner Sandeep Khirwar in the morning and lodged a complaint
 police ne peechha karne kaa maamla darj kiya he lekin police kaa kahana he ki sisitivi footage milane se pehle ve kuch khaas nahin kar sakate
 At the same time, the case of Varnika Kundu in Chandigarh has now caught up
 haryana bijepi ke adhyaksh subhash baraala ke bete dwaara chandigarh main kathith rup se ek ladki kaa peechha karne ke maamle main vikaas baraala or uske dost kii aaj peshi honi he
 Meanwhile, sources are quoted as saying that Vikas Barala has confessed to chasing Varnika Kundu's car in police interrogation
 peedita ne aarope lagaaya he ki vikaas baraala or uskaa dost ashish kumaar ek petrol pump se hi uski car kaa peechha kar rahe the or phir unhone car ko rokane kii koshish bhi kii
 The comments video- chandigarh chhedchhad cese main dabaav ke baad giraftaar hue aaropee Twice one of these men got out of his car and tried to open the car door
 isi dauraan ladki ke kai baar phone karne par police vahaan pahunchi or donon ladakon ko giraftaar kar liya
 The victim's father wrote on Facebook, "if we do not strive to bring the culprits to justice then more daughters will suffer this trauma
" ’ The girl was on a scooter and shortly after leaving the office at midnight, she found some people chasing her
 in ladakon ne uskaa teen kilometre tak peechha kiya
 The girl went to the police station but could not remember the car number
 ladki ko number kaa sirf yah hissaa yaad rahaa- "HR-57" Read: Vikas Barala confesses to chase Varnika Kundu in Chandigarh molestation case - sources vah baad main subah police kamishnar sandip khirvaar ke offis pahunchi or shikaayat darj karwaai
 Police have registered a case of chase but police say they cannot do anything special before getting CCTV footage
 vahiin, chandigarh main varnika kundu kaa maamla ab tool pakad chukaa he
 Vikas Barala and his friend are to be produced today in connection with the alleged chase of a girl in Chandigarh by the son of Haryana BJP President Subhash Barala
 is bich sutron ke hawaale se khabar he ki vikaas baraala ne police kii poochtacha main varnika kundu kii car kaa peechha karne kii baat qabool kar lee he
 The victim has alleged that Vikas Barala and his friend Ashish Kumar were chasing her car from a petrol pump and then tried to stop the car
 tippaniyan Video- Accused arrested after pressure in Chandigarh molestation case do baar inamen se ek aadmi apni gaadi se niklaa or usne car kaa daravaaza kholane kii koshish kii
 Meanwhile, the police reached there after several calls from the girl and arrested both the boys
 peedita ke pita ne fasebuk par likhaa, ‘agar ham doshiyon ko nyaay ke kathghare main laane ke liye prayasarat nahin rahete hai to or adhik betiyaan yah aghat sahengi
 ' padhein: chandigarh chhedchhad cese main vikaas baraala ne varnika kundu kaa peechha karne kii baat kabuuli- sutara She later reached the office of Police Commissioner Sandeep Khirwar in the morning and lodged a complaint
 police ne peechha karne kaa maamla darj kiya he lekin police kaa kahana he ki sisitivi footage milane se pehle ve kuch khaas nahin kar sakate
 At the same time, the case of Varnika Kundu in Chandigarh has now caught up
 haryana bijepi ke adhyaksh subhash baraala ke bete dwaara chandigarh main kathith rup se ek ladki kaa peechha karne ke maamle main vikaas baraala or uske dost kii aaj peshi honi he
 Meanwhile, sources are quoted as saying that Vikas Barala has confessed to chasing Varnika Kundu's car in police interrogation
 peedita ne aarope lagaaya he ki vikaas baraala or uskaa dost ashish kumaar ek petrol pump se hi uski car kaa peechha kar rahe the or phir unhone car ko rokane kii koshish bhi kii
 The comments video- chandigarh chhedchhad cese main dabaav ke baad giraftaar hue aaropee Twice one of these men got out of his car and tried to open the car door
 isi dauraan ladki ke kai baar phone karne par police vahaan pahunchi or donon ladakon ko giraftaar kar liya
 The victim's father wrote on Facebook, "if we do not strive to bring the culprits to justice then more daughters will suffer this trauma
" ’ She later reached the office of Police Commissioner Sandeep Khirwar in the morning and lodged a complaint
 police ne peechha karne kaa maamla darj kiya he lekin police kaa kahana he ki sisitivi footage milane se pehle ve kuch khaas nahin kar sakate
 At the same time, the case of Varnika Kundu in Chandigarh has now caught up
 haryana bijepi ke adhyaksh subhash baraala ke bete dwaara chandigarh main kathith rup se ek ladki kaa peechha karne ke maamle main vikaas baraala or uske dost kii aaj peshi honi he
 Meanwhile, sources are quoted as saying that Vikas Barala has confessed to chasing Varnika Kundu's car in police interrogation
 peedita ne aarope lagaaya he ki vikaas baraala or uskaa dost ashish kumaar ek petrol pump se hi uski car kaa peechha kar rahe the or phir unhone car ko rokane kii koshish bhi kii
 The comments video- chandigarh chhedchhad cese main dabaav ke baad giraftaar hue aaropee Twice one of these men got out of his car and tried to open the car door
 isi dauraan ladki ke kai baar phone karne par police vahaan pahunchi or donon ladakon ko giraftaar kar liya
 The victim's father wrote on Facebook, "if we do not strive to bring the culprits to justice then more daughters will suffer this trauma
" ’ At the same time, the case of Varnika Kundu in Chandigarh has now caught up
 haryana bijepi ke adhyaksh subhash baraala ke bete dwaara chandigarh main kathith rup se ek ladki kaa peechha karne ke maamle main vikaas baraala or uske dost kii aaj peshi honi he
 Meanwhile, sources are quoted as saying that Vikas Barala has confessed to chasing Varnika Kundu's car in police interrogation
 peedita ne aarope lagaaya he ki vikaas baraala or uskaa dost ashish kumaar ek petrol pump se hi uski car kaa peechha kar rahe the or phir unhone car ko rokane kii koshish bhi kii
 The comments video- chandigarh chhedchhad cese main dabaav ke baad giraftaar hue aaropee Twice one of these men got out of his car and tried to open the car door
 isi dauraan ladki ke kai baar phone karne par police vahaan pahunchi or donon ladakon ko giraftaar kar liya
 The victim's father wrote on Facebook, "if we do not strive to bring the culprits to justice then more daughters will suffer this trauma
" ’ Video- Accused arrested after pressure in Chandigarh molestation case do baar inamen se ek aadmi apni gaadi se niklaa or usne car kaa daravaaza kholane kii koshish kii
 Meanwhile, the police reached there after several calls from the girl and arrested both the boys
 peedita ke pita ne fasebuk par likhaa, ‘agar ham doshiyon ko nyaay ke kathghare main laane ke liye prayasarat nahin rahete hai to or adhik betiyaan yah aghat sahengi
 ' do baar inamen se ek aadmi apni gaadi se niklaa or usne car kaa daravaaza kholane kii koshish kii
 Meanwhile, the police reached there after several calls from the girl and arrested both the boys
 peedita ke pita ne fasebuk par likhaa, ‘agar ham doshiyon ko nyaay ke kathghare main laane ke liye prayasarat nahin rahete hai to or adhik betiyaan yah aghat sahengi
 ' england ke khilaaf farvari main hone vaali tii-20 siries main newjiland ke salaami ballebaaj jesi rider vaapasi kar sakate hai
 from international cricket for the last one year , said he would meet with coach Mike Hewson on 29 January
 gharelu sijan main wellington ke liye khelte hue rider ne shandaar pradarshan karte hue placont shield maichon kii 10 pariyon main 558 ran banaakar apni vaapasi kii majboot daavedaari pesh kii he
 During this time he has also scored three centuries
 rider ne vaapasi kii ichha jataate hue kaha ki ve test va tii-20 ko zyada tavajjo denge
 Rider, who made his 2008 debut, has played 18 Test matches before
 south africa ke khilaaf haal hi main hui siries main haarane ke baad unke team main aane se newjiland team ke madhya kram ko majbootee milegi
 At the same time, about his return to the team, New Zealand captain Brandon mccullum said that he hoped that Rider would be fully fit and return to the team and become an important part of the team
 ross tailor ne bhi england ke khilaaf siries main unki vaapasi kii ummid jataai he or kaha ki south africa ke khilaaf siries main team ko unki or vah unke saathi tim southi or vittori kii kaaphi kami khali
 As part of the exercise to recall his angry colleagues, Congress President Sonia Gandhi called up Railway Minister Lalu Prasad and asked him to attend Monday's cabinet meeting
 lalu ke nijee sachiv bholaa yadav ne bataaya ki upie adhyaksh ne shanivaar shaam rail mantri ko phone kiya or unase somvaar ko hone vaali cabinet kii baithak main shaamil hone kii apil kii
 He, however, did not say what the phone conversation between the two leaders was
 gauratlab he ki bihar main rajd, lojpa kii aguwai vaale chauthe morche kii loksabhaa chunaav main karaari shikast kii prishthbhumi main sonia gandhi or lalu ke bich baatcheet hui he
 The private secretary said that the railway minister is scheduled to leave for Delhi on Sunday
 lojpa or samaajawaadee party ke saath gathbandhan banane ke baad se lalu cabinet kii baithkon main shaamil nahin hue hai
 Lalu, the biggest ally of the Congress in the outgoing Lok Sabha, admitted on Saturday that it was a big mistake not to contest elections with the Congress
 unhone kaha tha congress ke bina chunaav ladane kaa faisla hamaari badi galati rahi or main ise sweekaar karata hum
 However, it is a great pleasure for me that the Congress-led UPA is going to form the government at the Center
 chhattisgarh ke durg main maansik rup main veikshipt ek ladki ko kuch pulicekarmiyon ne ghasitate hue pitayee kii
 Women's police help was not taken to deal with the girl's case
 barbar tareeke se hui pityeepitayee kii shikaar hui ladki ko khud apana hosh nahin he
 She has lost her mental balance
 is ladki kii police ke javaanon ne is tarah pitayee kii, jaise vah koi kuunkaar apradhi ho
 This girl from Bokaro b
 After doing m
sc
 aid
 Is doing, but sometimes its mental balance deteriorates
 ladki ke pathar chalaane par hua hangaamisase pehle bhilai shahar main log us vaqt hairat main pad gaye, jab ye ladki sadak kinare baith kar pathar chalaane lagi
 On arrival of the police team, a stone cop was also found
 iske baad pulisavaale milakar ladki ko peetane lage
 Pulling her hair first gave her several slap receipts
 fir mahila police ke saath milakar use ghasitate hue le gaye
 The accused policemen have been suspended with immediate effect after they caught the suspended policemen
 ab yah sawaal gahraane laga he ki jab mahila police vahaan maujuud thi, to mard pulisavaalon ko bich main aane kii kya zarurat aan padi thi
 The Islamabad High Court on Monday reiterated its earlier order that Imran Khan's party tehreek-e-insaf can hold its protest at the 'democracy Park and Speech Corner' near the parade ground in Islamabad
 court ne imran khan ko adaalat main pesh hone kaa aadesh bhi diya
 The court also ordered the Inspector General of Islamabad for security arrangements during Imran's appearance
 court neimran khanko ye sunishchit karne kaa bhi aadesh diya ki unki party kaa dharna shantipurna hoga or kanoon-vyavastha le khilwaad kii koi koshish nahin hogi
 Earlier, Imran Khan had requested the Supreme Court of Pakistan to take automatic knowledge of the arrest of his party workers
 imran ne bani galaa main apane awaas ke baahar media ke saamne ye bayaan diya tha
 Only after Imran's statement did the High Court reiterate its earlier order
 imran ne isse pehle ek press conference main kaha tha ki unki jaj se baat ho chuki he or wo court nahin jaaenge
 On this statement of Imran, High Court Judge Shaukat Aziz Siddiqui took a strong stand and said that why did Imran say that he will not appear before the court and he has spoken to the judge
 justise siddiki ne ye bhi kaha ki kya desh main sirf imran khan hi sammanit vyakti hai
 The judge asked the Inspector General of Islamabad to make arrangements for Imran Khan to appear in court
 urvarak mantri anant kumaar ne kaha he ki uria keemton ko badhaane kaa koi prastaav nahin he tathaa daren maujuuda str par rahengi
 Urea is the most commonly used fertilizer in the country and is the only controlled fertilizer and its selling price has been fixed at Rs 5,360 per tonne
 mantri ne kaha, maujuuda samay main uria kii keemton ko badhaane kaa koi prastaav nahin he, keemten purv str par rahengi
 Earlier this week, a senior fertilizer ministry official had said that there were some rumors about the price rise in the market, which led to a spurt in shares of fertilizer companies
 adhikari ne kaha ki keemton main vruddhi karne kaa koi prastaav nahin tha
 The difference between the cost of production and the fixed selling price, as assessed by the Fertilizer Industry Coordination Committee, is paid as a subsidy to the fertilizer industry
 punjab main vidhaan sabha chunaavon main abhi samay he, lekin sabhi rajnatik dal abhi se hi dal bal ke saath chunaav prachaar main lag gaye hai
 The AAP will claim a full majority, although the political rallies have not started yet, but posters and survey wars have started on social media
 akali dal, bijepi or congress jahaan abhi soshal media par hi active the kii aam aadmi party ne chaar kadam aage badhate hue puure punjab main poster lagaakar daawa kiya he kii survey main aap ko 100 to congress ko 10 va akali-bijepi ko sirf 7 siten hi milengi
 At the same time, its ULT Akali and Congress are making claims in their favor
 congress ne bhi kiya bahumat kaa daawabhathinda main aam aadmi party ke survey vaale postaron main punjabi main likhaa he 'aap kii banegi sarkaar- si voter kaa survey
 Through the survey, it has been claimed that AAP will get 100 seats, Congress 10 and akali-bjp alliance only 7 seats
 ab isi tarj par soshal media par congress kaa poster viral ho rahaa he, jisamen iske ult parinaam congress ke paksh main dikhaae gaye hai
 'AAP spending Delhi's earnings in Punjab' leader AAP c
 di
 Kamboj said that our survey is not air, but a news paper and a well-known agency
 hamane isko sirf aage prasaarit kiya he
 Punjab Chief Minister's Media Advisor Harcharan Singh Bains said that this survey is fake
 ye dilli ke tex peyar kii gadhi kamai duusare rajyon main udaane kaa kaam aap party kar rahi he
 We have not done the survey but claim that we are winning these elections with good majority
 congress ke laal singh ne kaha ki dekhiye congress kii to mejority aati dikh rahi he
 But the truth of your survey is that Delhi's money is being spent here
 khud na khaasta kal ko ye yahaan satta main aa gaye to yahaan kaa paisa kahin or lagaayenge
 The voter will be surprised, where Prashant Kishor has been commanded by the election campaign, while the Akali Dal is also in touch with the big company doing the campaign work
 lekin jis tareeke kaa prachaar punjab main soshal media par shuru ho chukaa he, usase kahin na kahin voter jarur pareshaan or hairaan najar aa rahaa he
 The question is, when all the three big parties are getting a majority, then the result of the election will be against whom? bollywood ke jane maane actor anil kapur ke tivi sho '24' kii ek baar phir se vaapasi ho rahi he
 Anil Kapoor, who made a strong entry in the TV industry through this show on the lines of the international TV show '24', is ready to shoot the second season of the show
 sutron ke mutabik anil kapur ne pehle bhi is tivi sho ke pehle sijan kii shooting ke liye filmon se kuch din brake liya tha
 He then took a break from television to complete two of his films - Zoya Akhtar's 'dil Dhadakne Do' and Anees Bazmee's Welcome Back
 lekin ab anil oktober se '24' ke duusare sijan kii shooting shuru karenge
 The show aired on Colors Channel
 sho main anupam kher, shabana azmi, tiska chopra, anitha raaj or mandira bedi jaise kalakaar bhi najar aae the
 The show was produced under the banner of Anil Kapoor Film Company and Ramesh Dev Productions
 louh purush sardaar bhai vallabh patel ke sammaan main banaai duniya kii sabase oonchi murti 'stachu of unity' ke baad piem modi ne man kii baat ke 51wein episod main 'sardaar patel puraskaar' shuru karne kii jaankaree di he
 Honoring that spirit of Sardar Patel, he is launching the 'sardar Patel Award' for unity
 is puraskaar ke madhyam se ham unhen shradhanjali arpit karte hai
 These awards will be given for national unity
 is puraskaar kii jaankaree 21-22 disambar, 2018 ko sardaar vallabhbhai patel kii pratimaa ke paas, gujarat ke narmada jile ke kevadia main yojit diarector general of police and inspector general of police ke anual kronfres main ghoshnaa kii thi
 Let me tell you, in the year 1948, Vallabhbhai Patel had conferred the first Inspector General of Police in Delhi
 stachu of unity kii ye baaten banaati he ise duniya main sabase khaas
 
 
 Sardar Patel devoted his life towards unifying India
 The Sardar Patel Award for National Integration will be a fitting tribute to him and will inspire more people to work towards furthering India’s unity and national integration
 - Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) December 23, 2018 These statues will be built higher than 'statue of Unity' in the country! Who will be given these awards Sardar Patel Award will be given to those who have contributed for national unity in any way
 bataa den, modi ne ‘sardaar patel puraskaar’ke bare main jaankaree twit ke jariye bhi di thi
 18 freight bogies of a goods train passing through the muzaffarpur-narkatiaganj rail section were damaged due to the demolition of the railway track near Manichhapra village between Chakia and Meheshi railway station in East Champaran district in Bihar
 police adheekshak vinay kumaar ne bataaya ki ghatana kii jaanch ke liye patna se farensik team bulaai gai he
 It is only after the investigation of the case that the causes of the incident will be clearly known
 is haadase main rail chaalak samet kisi relkarmi ke hataahat hone kii soochna nahin he
 Due to this incident, the operation of trains on the said rail route has been disrupted and the operational route of other long distance trains passing through the route has been changed
 durghatnagrast malgadee par lohe kii chaden ladi thim
 Due to the accident, the bogies of the goods train climbed on each other and the track was also damaged for about 100 meters
 ghatnasthal par railway ke ediarem bies dohare, railway suraksha bal ke samadeshta kumaar nishanth, purvi champaran ke jiladhikari abhaya kumaar singh, police adheekshak vinay kumaar tathaa rajkeey rail police upaadheekshak harendra singh samet railway ke anya aalaa adhikari, jila evam police prashasan ke variya adhikari ghatnasthal par pahunchakar maamle kii chaanbin kar rahe hai
 When asked about the possibility of Naxalites being involved in the incident, the Superintendent of Police has not denied this apprehension at the moment
 punjab ke kapoorthala jile main ek vyakti ne apni patni ke kathith ashleel video or avaidh sambandhon kii jaankaree milane par parivaar samet khud ko aag lagaakar aatmahatya kar lee
 He has two minor children in his family
 police ne guuruuvaar ko bataaya ki ghatana se kuch hi ghanton pehle vah videsh se waapas aayaa tha
 Kulwinder Singh (35), his wife Mandeep, and two minor children - Sonal (8) and Abhi (5) died on Thursday after the fire incident
 yah maamla chandigarh se lagbhag 180 kilometre dur sthit kapoorthala jile ke kaala singhiyaan gaanv kaa he
 Police said that Kuldeep had come from Jordan to his village on Wednesday night
 vah jordan main kaam karata he
 (apart from the headline, this news has not been edited by the NDTV team, it has been published directly from the Syndicate feed
 ) a shocking video is surfacing about actor-turned-politician Nandamuri Balakrishna's roadshow
 kuch reports main kaha ja rahaa he ki road sho ke dauraan baalkrishna ne aapa kho diya or apni hi party ke varkar ke saath budtamiji kii
 The incident is being told during the campaigning in the assembly elections
 baalkrishna, hindoopur vidhansabha seat par vidhayak hai
 He is also contesting the assembly elections this time on a Telugu Desam Party ticket
 isse pehle bhi nandamuri kaa ek video viral hua tha jisamen unhone ek jarnlist ke saath budtamiji kii thi
 What's the matter? According to some reports, a fan of Telugu Desam's star campaigner and MLA Balakrishna got very close to taking pictures while campaigning for the Hindupur assembly election in Chipurupalli, Andhra Pradesh
 fain party kaa saporter bataaya ja tarah he
 Balakrishna erupted after Fan came close
 soshal media par jo video viral usamen nandamuri fain ke peeche bhaagate najar aa rahe hai
 Nandamuri is also known as NBK or Balyababu
 kai log unhen baalkrishna kii kehete hai
 He is counted among the veteran actor of Telugu cinema
 ve andhra pradesh ke purv mukhyamantri or tidipi ke sansthaapak anti ramarao ke bete hai
 Recently he played the role of NTR in a two-part biopic on his father
 bataate chalem ki nandamuri ne mahaj 14 saal kii umr main totamma kaala film se apana debyue kiya tha
 Balakrishna has acted in over 100 films
 video jise lekar lagaae ja rahe hai aarope # Balayyadid it again!! # tdpchief # chandrababunaidurelative, party's star campaigner # Balakrishnanassaulted a party supporter during electioneering in Vizianagaram
 The Hindupur MLA, known for his short tamper was confused with "selfie"
 # andhrapradesh # Elections2019pic
 twitter
 com / ymqsdie3d9— Aashish (@ashi_indiatoday)april 8, 2019main tumhen jaan se maar daaloongaa:baalkrishna isse pehle campan ke dauraan ek patrkaar se durvyavhaar kar chuke hai
 He abused the journalist and also threatened to kill him
 baalkrishna ne photographer se tasviren delit karne ko kaha
 Balakrishna had said, "I will kill you
 mujhe pataa he ki bam kaise chalaaya jaataa he or chaaku kaise banaae jate hai
 "however, after the matter caught fire, Balkrishna apologized on Twitter
 kejarivalke tikhe hamalon kaa saamana karne vaale vidhi mantrisalman khurshidamahasoos karte hai ki ‘ek cheentee’ congress jaise hathi ke liye chunauti nahin ho sakati he
 Khurshid said that through his allegations, Kejriwal is fulfilling the dream of destroying large parties and replacing them, which will never be fulfilled
 mantri ne kaha ki kejariwal swayan apane enjio ko videshon se chanda milane jaise aaropon kaa saamana kar rahe hai, unhen dusron par keechad oochhaalane kii bajaae in sawaalon kaa uttar dena chahie
 Kejriwal has targeted the NGO run by Salman Khurshid and his family alleging alleged financial irregularities
 khurshid ne ek saakshaatkaar main un aaropon ko sire se khaarij kar diya jisamen kaha gaya he ki unhone kejariwal ko farrukhabad kii prastaavit yatra karne par dhamkee di thi
 Will reveal more now: Arvind Kejriwal, He said, 'why will i threaten Kejriwal? What will i threaten? What will i gain from this? What do you think that his height, stature and personality are such that i will pay attention to him
 ’ khurshid ne kaha, ‘vah (kejariwal) kaaphi chote hai
 It is too small to fight with our party
 ek cheentee kisi hathi ko nahin samaapt kar sakati
 The ant cannot harm the elephant's trunk even after entering it in hundreds
 ’ yah puche jane par ki kya vah maanate hai ki congress or bhaajapa jaise raajnneetik dalon se jude bhrashtachar vivaad se raajnneeti main kadam rakhane vaale naye logon ko phayda hoga, vidhi mantri ne kaha, ‘yah keval ek sapana he
 'he said,' Some people are dreaming that they can destroy all things and political parties having a history of the years with impractical and absurd attacks
 un legon kaa maananaa he ki isse ye dal samaapt ho jaayenge or unke liye rasta saaf ho jaayegaa
 'salman Khurshid openly threatens Arvind Kejriwal
 Such small groups and parties will get a chance to come to power in the new India
 aisa sochna keval unka sapana maatr he
 Avoiding confirmation of Congress leader Digvijay Singh's allegations about Kejriwal's NGO receiving foreign funds, the Law Minister said that all these questions should be answered and Singh has collected a good amount of material
 khurshid ne kaha, ‘yah ajab baat he ki ve kisi se bhi sawaal poochhate hai or jawaab kii ummid karte he lekin unase puche gaye prashnon kaa uttar nahin dete
 Kejriwal should answer them
 bharat aane ke teen ghante ke bheetar maine iskaa uttar diya tha
 The Law Minister also dismissed the allegations of irregularities in land deals involving Robert Vadra, son-in-law of Congress President Sonia Gandhi in Haryana
 unhone kaha, ‘isamen aisa kuch bhi galat nahin he ki hamen chhipaane kii jarurat pade
 It is wrong that you interfere in the affairs of a private businessman and say that he is connected to someone
 ’ khurshid ne kaha ki vah jaanate hai ki yah hamalaa kisi nijee kaarobaari par nahin balki unke netritv ke khilaaf he
 The Law Minister also rejected those things that the party's image was tarnished by land deals related to Vadra
 vidhi mantri ne kaha, ‘koi vyakti aapke bare main galat baaten kahata he kyonki use ummid hoti he ki kuch log uski baton ko maan lenge or agar kuch log in baton ko maanate hai tab yah dukhad or traasad hoga
 But i am sure that nothing like this will happen
 ’kejariwal ke farrukhabad jane ke bare main chunauti se jude bayaan ko todmarod kar pesh kiye jane kaa ullekh karte hue khurshid ne kaha, ‘agar aap samajhate hai ki koi khabar tod marod kar pesh kiya jane ke bina nahin ban sakati, tab main kahuunga ki puri baat pesh karen or logon ko nirnay karne den
 'know the personality of Salman Khurshid
 
 
 khurshid ne kaha ki kejariwal ke farrukhabad jane ke bare main unka kahana tha ki kejariwal vahaan jaae or apane aaropon par pratikriya praapt karke lauten
 He said that when he said he would use his blood, he intended to use his blood to write his story
 khurshid ne kaha, ‘main apni kalam main kisi duusare vyakti ke khun kaa istemaal nahin karuunga
 i do not say anything about violence and harm
 main kisi vyakti ko nicha dikhne ke bare main kuch nahin kahata
 How can i threaten then
 ’ yah puche jane par ek prabud or saumy raajnneetik kis prakaar se kejariwal ke khilaaf aakraamak bhashaa kaa istemaal kar saktaa he, vidhi mantri ne kaha, ‘main mashin nahin hum
 i am a human ’aakhir koun hai arvind kejariwal?unhone kaha ki vah jab videsh main the tab sadakon par pradarshan karne vaale log bayaan de rahe the ki ‘mujhe giraftaar kiya janaa chahie
 My wife should be arrested
 ’ yah puche jane par kya unke man main koi kadavaahat yaa naaraazgi he, khurshid ne kaha, ‘kabhi kabhi yah kadavaahat jaisi lagati he, kabhi kabhi naaraazgi
 Sometimes it is sad
 kabhi kabhi main sochataa hum ki yah chintaa kii baat he
 Worry not only about myself but about the institution i represent
 vidhi mantri ke rup main agar main iskaa bachaav nahin kar saktaa tab main apni party or sarkaar kaa kaise bachaav karuunga
 "when asked that some people believe that he could not answer specific questions related to the NGO, he said," How charges? Where is the evidence? ’khurshid said that the basic issue is whether the camps were organized or not
 unhone kaha ki sunne main madad karne vaale upkaran, tipahiyaa vaahan jaise upkaran aise logon ko die ja sakate hai ,jinhen isaki jarurat ho
 Three people said that others took away their equipment
 khurshid ke trust ke khilaaf jaanch shuruvidhi mantri ne kaha ki, ‘mujhe vishwaas he ki main isse nikal aaunga
 If i prove to the court that the camps were organized and the court gives me money, will my life be as normal as before
 ’khurshid un prashnon ko taal gaye jisamen unase poocha gaya tha ki kya vidhi mantri ke taur par unke paas purv pradhanmantri atal bihari vaajapeyi or bhaajapa ke varisht netaa laal krishna adwani ke bacchon se jude kathith aniyamitata ke maamalon ke bare main sakshya he jaisaa daawa digvijay singh ne kiya he
 Regarding Kejriwal's attack on Nitin Gadkari, he said that he does not want to say anything further than what the BJP has said
 unhone kaha, ‘main itnaa kahana chaahunga ki pichley kuch maheenon main apane kya kiya kripaya aap is par dhyaan den
 ' do dinon main suraksha balon ko duusari badi safaltatin aatankiyon ko 6 eke-47 ke saath kiya giraftaarammu-kashmir police ne teen aatankiyon ko 6 eke-47 ke saath giraftaar kiya he
 The terrorists have been arrested from Lakhanpur in the punjab-jammu and Kashmir border
 surakshabalon ko input mila tha ki ek trek se hathiyaar le jaaya ja rahaa he
 The security forces then caught the truck and arrested three terrorists with weapons
 SSP Kathua: a truck carrying arms and ammunition has been recovered in Kathua, more details are awaited
 # jammuandkashmirhttps: / / t
 co / lrfkqi3c3ppic
 twitter
 com / nvvti2acpg— ANI (@ani)september 12, 2019kathua ke esaspi ne kaha ki hathiyaar or gola-barood le ja rahe ek trek ko jabt kiya gaya he
 This is the second major breakthrough for the security forces in two days
 isse pehle buudhvaar ko suraksha balon ne lashkar-e-taiyaba ke aatanki asif ko dher kiya tha
 In Sopore in Jammu and Kashmir, security forces were reported to have hidden the terrorist in the morning
 iske baad surakshabalon ne abhiyaan chalaaya
 During this, the most wanted terrorist Asif was killed
 asif ne hi sopor main ek fal vikreta ke ghar par firing kar teen sadasyon ko ghayal kar diya tha, jisamen 30 maheene kii bacchee shaamil thi
 Jammu and Kashmir Police DGP Dilbag Singh said Asif was threatening apple traders
 unhone kaha ki asif ne sopor main kaaphi aatank machaa rakhaa tha
 He was very active in the last 1 month
 vah over ground workars ke jariye nagarikon ko dukaan nahin kholane kii dhamkee detaa tha
 He was also responsible for an attack on a laborer in Sopore
 8 aatanki bhi hue the giraftarsuraksha balon ne sopor main alag-alag aatanki sanghathanon ke liye kaam karne vaale 8 ground workars ko giraftaar kiya tha
 The arrested terrorists worked at the grassroots level for terrorist organizations and used to gather information for them
 sutron ke mutabik giraftaar kiye gaye sadsy kashmir ke logon ko dhamkaane or desh ke khilaaf bhadakaane ke maamalon main bhi sanlipt the
 Former Army Chief General VK Singh has apologized to the Supreme Court on the age dispute
 darasal, supreme court main jab general wike singh ke umr vivaad par cese chal rahaa tha, to unhone supreme court ke faisle ke khilaaf tippanee kii thi jiske baad se supreme court main un par avmaananaa kaa cese chal rahaa tha
 General VK Singh has stated in his apology that he had no intention of insulting the Supreme Court and the judges and he unconditionally apologizes for the entire controversy
 mignon du pres ke naabad 90 ran kii madad se dakshin africa ne teen maichon kii siries ke tisare or aakhri vanade match main bharat ko saat wicket se haraaya
 But the Indian women managed to win the series 2–1
 bharat ne siries kaa pehla vanade 88 or doosraa vanade 178 ranon se jeeta tha
 Now the series of five T20 matches will be played from 13 February
 dakshin africa ko aakhri 30 gend main 42 ranon kii jarurat thi
 Du Preez won the team with four balls to spare
 isse pehle salaami ballebaaj laura volvart ne 59 ran kii pari kheli
 This was the first defeat on this tour of India
 pehle ballebaaji karte hue dipti sharma ke 79 or veda krishnamurti ke 56 ran kii madad se bharat ne 240 ran banaae the
 South African left-arm fast bowler Shabnam Ismail took four wickets, including the wicket of Smriti Mandhana, who could not even open the account
 dipti or veda ne chauthe wicket ke liye 83 ran jode
 BJD will oppose the National Citizenship Register BJD had supported the Citizenship Amendment Act
 The Biju Janata Dal (BJD) will now oppose the National Citizenship Register (NRC)
 isse pehle bijedy ne naagarikta sanshodhan kanoon (siee) kaa samarthan kiya tha
 Odisha Chief Minister and BJD President Naveen Patnaik said that we will not support NRC
 hamane naagarikta kanoon kaa isliye samarthan kiya kyonki ye bhartiya nagarikon ko prabhavit nahin karata he
 The CM said, 'the citizenship law amendment has nothing to do with Indian citizens, it only deals with foreigners
 loksabhaa or rajyasabha main bijepi saansadon ne spasht kar diya tha ki ham NRC kaa samarthan nahin karte hai
 i appeal to the citizens to keep the peace and ignore the rumor
 'odisha CM: # citizenshipamendmentacthas nothing to do with Indian citizens, it only deals with the foreigners
 BJD mps in Lok Sabha & Rajya Sabha had made it clear that we don't support NRC, i appeal to citizens to let peace prevail & not to indulge in rumor mongering
 (file pic)pic
 twitter
 com / jmsnky3ebm— ANI (@ani)december 18, 2019bataa den ki desh main naagarikta kanoon ko lekar kaaphi virodh kiya ja rahaa he
 People have come out on the streets in protest against the law and are also carrying out violent demonstrations
 bhrashtachar or raajnneeti ke apradheekaran ke khilaaf samajasevi anna hajaare kii muhim ke bich uttarapradesh main hone vaale vidhansabha chunaav main kai bahubali jail kii salaakhon ke peeche se chunavi jang main apni takat dikhaane kii firaaq main hai
 If we look at the data released by the National Election Watch, then all the political parties are involved in giving tickets to the culprits, who have fielded at least 77 of the 617 candidates declared in the state against whom murder, murder There are cases registered in serious cases like attempt, kidnapping and robbery
 sutron se mili jaankaree ke anusaar, ab tak 69 ummidavaar aise bhi hai jo jail kii salaakhon ke peeche se pradesh main siyaasi bisaat par gotiyaan bithaane kii koshish kar rahe hai or is hode main pradesh kaa purvachal kaa ilaaka sabase aage he
 While the Election Commission has focused its attention on these activities of criminals, these Bahubali are also trying to defy the Commission and the police administration
 pradesh main puvarchal ke matadaataaon ke saamne is baar gambheer sankat he
 There are some assembly seats here where people will have to choose one of the Bahubali candidates because there are many Bahubali face to face
 jail main band munna bajrangi, brijesh singh, atik ahamed or mukhtaar ansaari jaise aapraadhik prishthbhumi vaale anek log is baar bhi chunaav maidan main hai
 Brijesh Singh is a candidate from the Progressive Manav Samaj Party and is currently in jail, but his election campaign is handled by his colleagues
 brijesh singh pakadi narsanhaar, mumbai ke jede hatyakand samet anek maamalon main aaropee he
 Another notorious name of the world of crime is Prem Prakash Singh alias Munna Bajrangi, on the ticket of Apna Dal, from the Mariahu assembly constituency of Jaunpur, in the state's electoral battle
 bajrangi bhaajapa vidhayak krishnanand raay sahit das se zyada logon kii hatya kaa aaropee he or is samay philhal dilli kii tihaad jail main band he
 While supporters of Bajrangi are actively campaigning in the assembly constituency, Atiq Ahmed, another criminal candidate from Apna Dal, is trying his luck in the assembly elections, who are accused in a dozen cases
 hatya samet kai sangeen aparaadhon main aaropee nirdaleey vidhayak mukhtaar ansaari is baar mau vidhansabha kshetra se kaumi ekta dal ke ummidavaar ke rup main chunaav maidan main he
 Ansari has several criminal cases registered and is currently in jail
 tippaniyan Bhadohi MLA Vijay Mishra, who was accused of carrying out a fatal attack on Nandagopal Nandi, a minister in the BSP government of the state, has been re-nominated by the Samajwadi Party
 congress ne gajipur ke jamaania kshetra se kalavati bind ko ummidavaar banaaya he jo kareeb ek saal pehle jamaania main ek police chaowkee main aagjanee tathaa chaowkee prabharee kii maut ke maamle main jail main band he
 Apart from this, Congress has given ticket to Shailesh Kumar Singh from Jangipur in Ghazipur itself
 ek thane main aagjanee or patharav ke aaropee singh gangster or rashtriya suraksha kanoon ke tahat jail main niruddh he
 If we look at the data released by the National Election Watch, then all the political parties are involved in giving tickets to the culprits, who have fielded at least 77 of the 617 candidates declared in the state against whom murder, murder There are cases registered in serious cases like attempt, kidnapping and robbery
 sutron se mili jaankaree ke anusaar, ab tak 69 ummidavaar aise bhi hai jo jail kii salaakhon ke peeche se pradesh main siyaasi bisaat par gotiyaan bithaane kii koshish kar rahe hai or is hode main pradesh kaa purvachal kaa ilaaka sabase aage he
 While the Election Commission has focused its attention on these activities of criminals, these Bahubali are also trying to defy the Commission and the police administration
 pradesh main puvarchal ke matadaataaon ke saamne is baar gambheer sankat he
 There are some assembly seats here where people will have to choose one of the Bahubali candidates because there are many Bahubali face to face
 jail main band munna bajrangi, brijesh singh, atik ahamed or mukhtaar ansaari jaise aapraadhik prishthbhumi vaale anek log is baar bhi chunaav maidan main hai
 Brijesh Singh is a candidate from the Progressive Manav Samaj Party and is currently in jail, but his election campaign is handled by his colleagues
 brijesh singh pakadi narsanhaar, mumbai ke jede hatyakand samet anek maamalon main aaropee he
 Another notorious name of the world of crime is Prem Prakash Singh alias Munna Bajrangi, on the ticket of Apna Dal, from the Mariahu assembly constituency of Jaunpur, in the state's electoral battle
 bajrangi bhaajapa vidhayak krishnanand raay sahit das se zyada logon kii hatya kaa aaropee he or is samay philhal dilli kii tihaad jail main band he
 While supporters of Bajrangi are actively campaigning in the assembly constituency, Atiq Ahmed, another criminal candidate from Apna Dal, is trying his luck in the assembly elections, who are accused in a dozen cases
 hatya samet kai sangeen aparaadhon main aaropee nirdaleey vidhayak mukhtaar ansaari is baar mau vidhansabha kshetra se kaumi ekta dal ke ummidavaar ke rup main chunaav maidan main he
 Ansari has several criminal cases registered and is currently in jail
 tippaniyan Bhadohi MLA Vijay Mishra, who was accused of carrying out a fatal attack on Nandagopal Nandi, a minister in the BSP government of the state, has been re-nominated by the Samajwadi Party
 congress ne gajipur ke jamaania kshetra se kalavati bind ko ummidavaar banaaya he jo kareeb ek saal pehle jamaania main ek police chaowkee main aagjanee tathaa chaowkee prabharee kii maut ke maamle main jail main band he
 Apart from this, Congress has given ticket to Shailesh Kumar Singh from Jangipur in Ghazipur itself
 ek thane main aagjanee or patharav ke aaropee singh gangster or rashtriya suraksha kanoon ke tahat jail main niruddh he
 According to the information received from the sources, so far there are 69 candidates who are trying to get pieces from behind bars in the state on the political board and Purvachal Pradesh is in the forefront in this competition
 aparaadhiyon kii in gatividhiyon par jahaan chunaav ayog ne in siton par apni nazren or paini kar di hai, vahiin ye bahubali bhi ayog or police prashasan ko dhata bataane kii koshish kar rahe hai
 This time there is a serious crisis in front of the voters of the eastern region
 yahaan par kuch vidhansabha siten to aisi hai jahaan logaan ko bahubali ummidavaaron main se hi kisi ek ko chunanaa hoga kyonki un par kai bahubali aamane saamne hai
 Many people with criminal background like jailed Munna Bajrangi, Brijesh Singh, Atik Ahmed and Mukhtar Ansari are also contesting this time
 brijesh singh pragatisheel maanav samaaj party se ummidavaar he or is samay jail main he lekin uske chunaav prachaar kaa jimmaa uske sahyogiyon ne sambhaal rakhaa he
 Brijesh Singh is an accused in many cases including the Pakdi massacre, Jade murder case of Mumbai
 aparaadh kii duniya kaa ek or kukhyat naam prem prakaash singh urf munna bajrangi apana dal ke tikat par jonpur kii madiyahoo vidhansabha kshetra se pradesh ke chunavi jang main utraa hua he
 Bajrangi is accused of killing more than ten people including BJP MLA Krishnanand Rai and is currently lodged in Tihar Jail in Delhi
 bajrangi ke samarthak vidhansabha kshetra main jor shor se chunaav prachaar main lage hue hai to vahi apana dal se ek or aapraadhik prishthbhumi vaale ummidavaar atik ahamed vidhansabha chunaav main apni kismat aajamaa rahe hai jo darjan bhar maamalon main aaropee hai
 Independent MLA Mukhtar Ansari, accused in several serious crimes including murder, is in the fray as a candidate for the Qaumi Ekta Dal from Mau assembly constituency
 ansaari par kai aparaadhik maamle darj he or is samay vah bhi jail main band he
 The comments rajya kii basapa sarkaar main mantri nandgopal nandi par jaanaleva hamalaa karne ke aaropee bhadohi ke vidhayak vijay mishra ko samaajawaadee party ne ek baar phir apana ummidavaar banaaya he
 The Congress has nominated Kalawati Bind from Ghazipur area of ghazipur, who is in jail in the case of arson and death of the in-charge of a police post in Zambia, about a year ago
 iske alaava congress ne gajipur ke hi jangipur se shailesh kumaar singh ko tikat diya he
 Singh, accused of arson and stone pelting in a police station, is lodged in jail under the Gangster and National Security Act
 aparaadhiyon kii in gatividhiyon par jahaan chunaav ayog ne in siton par apni nazren or paini kar di hai, vahiin ye bahubali bhi ayog or police prashasan ko dhata bataane kii koshish kar rahe hai
 This time there is a serious crisis in front of the voters of the eastern region
 yahaan par kuch vidhansabha siten to aisi hai jahaan logaan ko bahubali ummidavaaron main se hi kisi ek ko chunanaa hoga kyonki un par kai bahubali aamane saamne hai
 Many people with criminal background like jailed Munna Bajrangi, Brijesh Singh, Atik Ahmed and Mukhtar Ansari are also contesting this time
 brijesh singh pragatisheel maanav samaaj party se ummidavaar he or is samay jail main he lekin uske chunaav prachaar kaa jimmaa uske sahyogiyon ne sambhaal rakhaa he
 Brijesh Singh is an accused in many cases including the Pakdi massacre, Jade murder case of Mumbai
 aparaadh kii duniya kaa ek or kukhyat naam prem prakaash singh urf munna bajrangi apana dal ke tikat par jonpur kii madiyahoo vidhansabha kshetra se pradesh ke chunavi jang main utraa hua he
 Bajrangi is accused of killing more than ten people including BJP MLA Krishnanand Rai and is currently lodged in Tihar Jail in Delhi
 bajrangi ke samarthak vidhansabha kshetra main jor shor se chunaav prachaar main lage hue hai to vahi apana dal se ek or aapraadhik prishthbhumi vaale ummidavaar atik ahamed vidhansabha chunaav main apni kismat aajamaa rahe hai jo darjan bhar maamalon main aaropee hai
 Independent MLA Mukhtar Ansari, accused in several serious crimes including murder, is in the fray as a candidate for the Qaumi Ekta Dal from Mau assembly constituency
 ansaari par kai aparaadhik maamle darj he or is samay vah bhi jail main band he
 The comments rajya kii basapa sarkaar main mantri nandgopal nandi par jaanaleva hamalaa karne ke aaropee bhadohi ke vidhayak vijay mishra ko samaajawaadee party ne ek baar phir apana ummidavaar banaaya he
 The Congress has nominated Kalawati Bind from Ghazipur area of ghazipur, who is in jail in the case of arson and death of the in-charge of a police post in Zambia, about a year ago
 iske alaava congress ne gajipur ke hi jangipur se shailesh kumaar singh ko tikat diya he
 Singh, accused of arson and stone pelting in a police station, is lodged in jail under the Gangster and National Security Act
 pradesh main puvarchal ke matadaataaon ke saamne is baar gambheer sankat he
 There are some assembly seats here where people will have to choose one of the Bahubali candidates because there are many Bahubali face to face
 jail main band munna bajrangi, brijesh singh, atik ahamed or mukhtaar ansaari jaise aapraadhik prishthbhumi vaale anek log is baar bhi chunaav maidan main hai
 Brijesh Singh is a candidate from the Progressive Manav Samaj Party and is currently in jail, but his election campaign is handled by his colleagues
 brijesh singh pakadi narsanhaar, mumbai ke jede hatyakand samet anek maamalon main aaropee he
 Another notorious name of the world of crime is Prem Prakash Singh alias Munna Bajrangi, on the ticket of Apna Dal, from the Mariahu assembly constituency of Jaunpur, in the state's electoral battle
 bajrangi bhaajapa vidhayak krishnanand raay sahit das se zyada logon kii hatya kaa aaropee he or is samay philhal dilli kii tihaad jail main band he
 While supporters of Bajrangi are actively campaigning in the assembly constituency, Atiq Ahmed, another criminal candidate from Apna Dal, is trying his luck in the assembly elections, who are accused in a dozen cases
 hatya samet kai sangeen aparaadhon main aaropee nirdaleey vidhayak mukhtaar ansaari is baar mau vidhansabha kshetra se kaumi ekta dal ke ummidavaar ke rup main chunaav maidan main he
 Ansari has several criminal cases registered and is currently in jail
 tippaniyan Bhadohi MLA Vijay Mishra, who was accused of carrying out a fatal attack on Nandagopal Nandi, a minister in the BSP government of the state, has been re-nominated by the Samajwadi Party
 congress ne gajipur ke jamaania kshetra se kalavati bind ko ummidavaar banaaya he jo kareeb ek saal pehle jamaania main ek police chaowkee main aagjanee tathaa chaowkee prabharee kii maut ke maamle main jail main band he
 Apart from this, Congress has given ticket to Shailesh Kumar Singh from Jangipur in Ghazipur itself
 ek thane main aagjanee or patharav ke aaropee singh gangster or rashtriya suraksha kanoon ke tahat jail main niruddh he
 Many people with criminal background like jailed Munna Bajrangi, Brijesh Singh, Atik Ahmed and Mukhtar Ansari are also contesting this time
 brijesh singh pragatisheel maanav samaaj party se ummidavaar he or is samay jail main he lekin uske chunaav prachaar kaa jimmaa uske sahyogiyon ne sambhaal rakhaa he
 Brijesh Singh is an accused in many cases including the Pakdi massacre, Jade murder case of Mumbai
 aparaadh kii duniya kaa ek or kukhyat naam prem prakaash singh urf munna bajrangi apana dal ke tikat par jonpur kii madiyahoo vidhansabha kshetra se pradesh ke chunavi jang main utraa hua he
 Bajrangi is accused of killing more than ten people including BJP MLA Krishnanand Rai and is currently lodged in Tihar Jail in Delhi
 bajrangi ke samarthak vidhansabha kshetra main jor shor se chunaav prachaar main lage hue hai to vahi apana dal se ek or aapraadhik prishthbhumi vaale ummidavaar atik ahamed vidhansabha chunaav main apni kismat aajamaa rahe hai jo darjan bhar maamalon main aaropee hai
 Independent MLA Mukhtar Ansari, accused in several serious crimes including murder, is in the fray as a candidate for the Qaumi Ekta Dal from Mau assembly constituency
 ansaari par kai aparaadhik maamle darj he or is samay vah bhi jail main band he
 The comments rajya kii basapa sarkaar main mantri nandgopal nandi par jaanaleva hamalaa karne ke aaropee bhadohi ke vidhayak vijay mishra ko samaajawaadee party ne ek baar phir apana ummidavaar banaaya he
 The Congress has nominated Kalawati Bind from Ghazipur area of ghazipur, who is in jail in the case of arson and death of the in-charge of a police post in Zambia, about a year ago
 iske alaava congress ne gajipur ke hi jangipur se shailesh kumaar singh ko tikat diya he
 Singh, accused of arson and stone pelting in a police station, is lodged in jail under the Gangster and National Security Act
 aparaadh kii duniya kaa ek or kukhyat naam prem prakaash singh urf munna bajrangi apana dal ke tikat par jonpur kii madiyahoo vidhansabha kshetra se pradesh ke chunavi jang main utraa hua he
 Bajrangi is accused of killing more than ten people including BJP MLA Krishnanand Rai and is currently lodged in Tihar Jail in Delhi
 bajrangi ke samarthak vidhansabha kshetra main jor shor se chunaav prachaar main lage hue hai to vahi apana dal se ek or aapraadhik prishthbhumi vaale ummidavaar atik ahamed vidhansabha chunaav main apni kismat aajamaa rahe hai jo darjan bhar maamalon main aaropee hai
 Independent MLA Mukhtar Ansari, accused in several serious crimes including murder, is in the fray as a candidate for the Qaumi Ekta Dal from Mau assembly constituency
 ansaari par kai aparaadhik maamle darj he or is samay vah bhi jail main band he
 The comments rajya kii basapa sarkaar main mantri nandgopal nandi par jaanaleva hamalaa karne ke aaropee bhadohi ke vidhayak vijay mishra ko samaajawaadee party ne ek baar phir apana ummidavaar banaaya he
 The Congress has nominated Kalawati Bind from Ghazipur area of ghazipur, who is in jail in the case of arson and death of the in-charge of a police post in Zambia, about a year ago
 iske alaava congress ne gajipur ke hi jangipur se shailesh kumaar singh ko tikat diya he
 Singh, accused of arson and stone pelting in a police station, is lodged in jail under the Gangster and National Security Act
 bajrangi ke samarthak vidhansabha kshetra main jor shor se chunaav prachaar main lage hue hai to vahi apana dal se ek or aapraadhik prishthbhumi vaale ummidavaar atik ahamed vidhansabha chunaav main apni kismat aajamaa rahe hai jo darjan bhar maamalon main aaropee hai
 Independent MLA Mukhtar Ansari, accused in several serious crimes including murder, is in the fray as a candidate for the Qaumi Ekta Dal from Mau assembly constituency
 ansaari par kai aparaadhik maamle darj he or is samay vah bhi jail main band he
 The comments rajya kii basapa sarkaar main mantri nandgopal nandi par jaanaleva hamalaa karne ke aaropee bhadohi ke vidhayak vijay mishra ko samaajawaadee party ne ek baar phir apana ummidavaar banaaya he
 The Congress has nominated Kalawati Bind from Ghazipur area of ghazipur, who is in jail in the case of arson and death of the in-charge of a police post in Zambia, about a year ago
 iske alaava congress ne gajipur ke hi jangipur se shailesh kumaar singh ko tikat diya he
 Singh, accused of arson and stone pelting in a police station, is lodged in jail under the Gangster and National Security Act
 hatya samet kai sangeen aparaadhon main aaropee nirdaleey vidhayak mukhtaar ansaari is baar mau vidhansabha kshetra se kaumi ekta dal ke ummidavaar ke rup main chunaav maidan main he
 Ansari has several criminal cases registered and is currently in jail
 tippaniyan Bhadohi MLA Vijay Mishra, who was accused of carrying out a fatal attack on Nandagopal Nandi, a minister in the BSP government of the state, has been re-nominated by the Samajwadi Party
 congress ne gajipur ke jamaania kshetra se kalavati bind ko ummidavaar banaaya he jo kareeb ek saal pehle jamaania main ek police chaowkee main aagjanee tathaa chaowkee prabharee kii maut ke maamle main jail main band he
 Apart from this, Congress has given ticket to Shailesh Kumar Singh from Jangipur in Ghazipur itself
 ek thane main aagjanee or patharav ke aaropee singh gangster or rashtriya suraksha kanoon ke tahat jail main niruddh he
 Bhadohi MLA Vijay Mishra, who was accused of carrying out a fatal attack on Nandagopal Nandi, a minister in the BSP government of the state, has been re-nominated by the Samajwadi Party
 congress ne gajipur ke jamaania kshetra se kalavati bind ko ummidavaar banaaya he jo kareeb ek saal pehle jamaania main ek police chaowkee main aagjanee tathaa chaowkee prabharee kii maut ke maamle main jail main band he
 Apart from this, Congress has given ticket to Shailesh Kumar Singh from Jangipur in Ghazipur itself
 ek thane main aagjanee or patharav ke aaropee singh gangster or rashtriya suraksha kanoon ke tahat jail main niruddh he
 Apart from this, Congress has given ticket to Shailesh Kumar Singh from Jangipur in Ghazipur itself
 ek thane main aagjanee or patharav ke aaropee singh gangster or rashtriya suraksha kanoon ke tahat jail main niruddh he
 Former India captain Sunil Gavaskar has expressed hope from Team India that it will avenge the 0-4 defeat against England and will also beat England 4-0
 gavaskar ne kaha ki aagaamee test shrinkhalaa main bharat yadi pehla match jeet letaa he to uskaa palada england par baari hoga
 However, Gavaskar is finding the batting order of the host team weak
 gavaskar ne kaha, ‘meraa hameshaa se maananaa rahaa he ki mejabaan team kaa palada baari hota he
 They are aware of the situation and can play in it easily
 ’unhone kaha, ‘2011 main england or austrailia kaa bhi yahi haal tha
 The first test is very important
 england or austrailia ne pehla test jitkar baaji apane paksh main kii
 If India also wins the first Test, then England will not be able to return
 ’unhone doharaaya ki rahul dravid or vivies lakshmana kii gaiyr maujuudagi main bhartiya ballebaaji kamjor lag rahi he jabaki salaami ballebaaj virendra sahvaag or gautam gambhir bhi kharaab farm se jujh rahe hai
 Though Gavaskar is concerned about the form of the opening pair of Sehwag and Gambhir, but believes that the pair should not be tampered with
 unhone kaha, ‘bharat kii salaami jodi farm main nahin he
 Rahul Dravid and VVS Laxman have retired
 cheteshwar pujaara nayaa he
 India's batting looks weak
 ’ gavaskar ne kaha, ‘khilaadiyon ke farm main rahane par ham 500-600 ran bana sakate hai
 Umesh Yadav is new in bowling
 pragyan ojha or aar aswin kii jodi us tarah aakraamak nahin he jaisi hamaare paas do saal pehle hua karti thi
 However, Gavaskar admitted that Sachin's return to form was a good sign and the team's confidence would be enhanced by Sachin's runs
 gauratlab he ki sachin tendulkar ne ranjai trophy mukaable main railway ke khilaaf shandaar shatak lagaaya he
 When asked about captain Dhoni, Gavaskar said that Dhoni is fantastic in all three forms of cricket and at the moment there is no need to debate his captaincy
 shrinkhalaa ke parinaam ke bare main poochne par gavaskar ne kaha ki unhen ummid he ki bharat 4-0 se jitegaa
 He said, 'it is hard to speculate but i hope we will beat England and Australia 4-0
 hamane 2011 main isi antar se paraajay jheli thi
 Regarding the number six slot, he said, "yuvraj has given the captain an extra option not only with the bat but also with the bowling
" chathe number par yadi vah farm main rahata he to kisi bhi gendbaaji akraman kii dhajjiyaan uda saktaa he
 ' Dear PM, You cut the price of Petrol and Diesel today by 1 paisa
 ONE paisa!?? If this is your idea of a prank, it's childish and in poor taste
 P
 S
 a ONE paisa cut is not a suitable response to the # fuelchallenge i threw you last week
 https: / / t
 co / u7xzbuujds - Rahul Gandhi (@rahulgandhi) May 30, 2018 You've cut the price of Petrol and Diesel today by 1 paisa
 ONE paisa! ?? If this is your idea of a prank, it’s childish and in poor taste
 P
 S
 a ONE paisa cut is not a suitable response to the # fuelchallenge i threw you last week
 https: / / t
 co / u7xzbuujds — Rahul Gandhi (@rahulgandhi) May 30, 2018 If this is your idea of a prank, it's childish and in poor taste
 P
 S
 a ONE paisa cut is not a suitable response to the # fuelchallenge i threw you last week
 https: / / t
 co / u7xzbuujds - Rahul Gandhi (@rahulgandhi) May 30, 2018 P
 S
 a ONE paisa cut is not a suitable response to the # fuelchallenge i threw you last week
 https: / / t
 co / u7xzbuujds Earlier, the Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "modi ji, rob 4 lakh crores of petrol and diesel in 4 years, don't make fun of them, give a discount of one penny
 ful chalange par 'maun modi' aakhir kab 'bol modi' banenge?' bjp's efforts to tie up with smaller parties for the Lok Sabha elections are continuing
 isi kadi main guuruuvaar ko bijepi ne rajasthan main hanuman beniwal kii rashtriya loktantric party (aralapi) se gathjod karne kii ghoshnaa kii
 BJP will leave Nagaur seat for RLP out of Rajasthan's 25 Lok Sabha seats
 is seat par vidhayak beniwal khud chunaav ladenge
 Union Minister and party's election in-charge Prakash Javadekar and Beniwal announced this at the press conference
 jaavdekar ne bataaya ki loksabhaa chunaav ke liye yah gathjod kiya gaya he jiske tahat party rajya kii nagaur seat aralapi ko degi
 In return, RLP will support the BJP in Rajasthan as well as neighboring states like Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi and help its candidates win
 ek sawaal ke jawaab main beniwal ne bataaya ki nagaur seat se vah khud chunaav ladenge
 Beniwal said that keeping in mind the interests of the nation, farmers and youth, he has joined hands with the BJP so that Narendra Modi can be made Prime Minister once again
 bijepi ne is seat se abhi apane pratyaashee kii ghoshnaa nahin kii thi
 Beniwal's old association with BJP Beniwal has an old association with BJP
 ek vakt beniwal bijepi main hi hua karte the
 In 2008, he reached the assembly by winning the election on a BJP ticket
 2013 main unhone nirdaleey chunaav ladakar jeet hasil kii
 Before the last assembly election in Rajasthan, Beniwal formed his own party National Democratic Party which won three seats
 beniwal kuch din pehle tak congress tathaa tisare morche ke dalon ke saath milakar chunaav ladane kii baat kah rahe the
 Beniwal's direct fight with Jyoti Mirdha The battle of Nagaur seat has become interesting now
 congress ne nagaur seat se jyoti mirdha ko ummidavaar banaaya he
 After Beniwal comes to this seat, there will be a direct fight between the two
 congress kii ore se ab tak koshish thi ki beniwal ko saath laane kii lekin baat nahin bani
 Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi has attacked PM Narendra Modi over the Lalit Modi controversy
 duusari taraf sansad ke monsoon satr ke aakhri din bhi loksabhaa or rajyasabha main vipaksh kaa hangaamaa pehle kii tarah jari rahaa
 Read the big news together so far
 
 
 1
 Rahul Gandhi's fiery attack on Narendra Modi- We have understood that this PM is afraid, Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi has attacked PM Narendra Modi for the Lalit Modi controversy
 rahul gandhi ne kaha, 'ham samaj gaye hai ki ye pradhanmantri darataa he
 'rahul Gandhi said that this is a big opportunity for PM Modi, he should bring Lalit Modi back to India and clean up cricket
 rahul ne kaha, 'ham piem par itnaa dabaav daalenge ki lalit modi jarur waapas bharat aayega
 '2
 vipaksh ke joardaar hangaame ke baad sansad kii kaarywahi anischitkaal ke liye sthagitsansad ke monsoon satr ke aakhri din bhi loksabhaa or rajyasabha main vipaksh kaa hangaamaa pehle kii tarah jari rahaa
 Congress mps walked out of the House following the uproar
 congress, TMC samet kai dalon ke MP sansad ke parisar main virodh pradarshan kar rahe hai
 3
 bombai hai court ne megi par lage bain ko hatayabombay hai court ne nestle ko megi maamle main badi raahat dete hue guuruuvaar ko FSSAI dwaara lage pratibandh ko khaarij kar diya he
 The court has asked Nestle to start Maggie's production
 haalanki court ke aadesh ke mutabik nirmit kii ja rahi megi kaa ek baar phir test kiya jayega
 If Led's presence in the test is on the basis of standards, Nestle can bring its product back to the market
 4
 These 5 reasons will remember that the first monsoon session of Modi government has come, rained and gone
 monsoon satr apni gati ko praapt ho gaya
 The first monsoon session of the Modi government's tenure will be remembered in Indian political history for its inaction and deadlock
 aapako bataate hai, ve 5 vajahen jo is satr ko modi sarkaar ke liye bura sapana bana gayi
 5
 aatanki naved ko dilli laane ke liye jammu pahunchaa vishesh vimaanudhampur hamale main jinda pakade gaye pakistani aatanki naved ko jammu se dilli laae jane kii taiyaari puri ho chuki he
 Special aircraft have reached Jammu to bring Naved
 naved ko jammu ke technical airport par laayaa ja chukaa he
 Special protection squad is present at the airport to protect the aircraft from hijacking
 jaipur-dilli rashtriya rajmarg par kotputli thana kshetra main rajasthan roadways kii ek bas main aag lag gai
 No passenger was killed in the fire
 thana prabharee rabindra pratap ne bataaya ki dilli se jaipur aa rahi rajasthan roadways kii bas main short circuit ke kaaran achaanak aag lag gai
 The bus driver immediately stopped the bus and unloaded all passengers from the bus
 unhone bataaya ki aag par damakal vaahanon ne kaabo paaya
 The passengers were sent to Jaipur by another bus
 bas main kareeb 25 yatri savaar the
 The comments vahiin, rajasthan yatayaat vibhaag ke adhikariyon ne bataaya ki aag ke kaarnon kii jaanch kii ja rahi he
 The cause of the fire is yet to be determined
 thana prabharee rabindra pratap ne bataaya ki dilli se jaipur aa rahi rajasthan roadways kii bas main short circuit ke kaaran achaanak aag lag gai
 The bus driver immediately stopped the bus and unloaded all passengers from the bus
 unhone bataaya ki aag par damakal vaahanon ne kaabo paaya
 The passengers were sent to Jaipur by another bus
 bas main kareeb 25 yatri savaar the
 The comments vahiin, rajasthan yatayaat vibhaag ke adhikariyon ne bataaya ki aag ke kaarnon kii jaanch kii ja rahi he
 The cause of the fire is yet to be determined
 vahiin, rajasthan yatayaat vibhaag ke adhikariyon ne bataaya ki aag ke kaarnon kii jaanch kii ja rahi he
 The cause of the fire is yet to be determined
 shaomi ne haal hi main bhartiya market main Redmi Note 7 or Redmi Note 7 Pro launch kiya he
 However, a variant that has 6GB RAM and 128GB internal memory was not offered by the company and it was not available for sale either
 ab ye model company kii website par list kar diya gaya he or jald hi isaki bikri shuru hogi
 However, Xiaomi has not yet officially announced when the sale of 6GB RAM and 128GB memory model of Redmi Note 7 Pro will start
 lekin ye bhi ummid he ki kampan jald hi iskaa elaan karegi
 There is not much difference in this variant compared to the standard variants of Note 7 Pro
 fark sirf ram or mameri kaa he
 Other specifications are the same
 color verients teen hai – neptune blue,spes blike or nebula red
 Talking about the price, the 6GB RAM and 128GB memory variant of Redmi Note 7 Pro is Rs 16,999
 jabaki 4GB vaala verient 13,999 rupee main miltaa he
 On March 3, the sale of Redmi Note 7 Pro and perhaps the company will start selling it on the same day
 Redmi Note 7 Pro ke nae verient ke spasipecations kii baat karen is smartphone main 6
 a 3-inch full HD Plus display is provided
 is phone main qolkom snapadranag 675 octacor prosesar diya gaya he or isamen 6GB ram ke saath 128GB kii internal storage di gai he
 Artificial intelligence based dual camera setup has been provided in this smartphone for photography
 ek camera 48 megapixl kaa he doosraa camera 5 megapixl kaa he
 The battery of this smartphone is a 4,000mah battery and it has been given fast charging support
 is phone kii disple main water drop noch he jisamen selfi camera diya gaya he
 Pakistan's Communal Security Agency (PMSA) took possession of four boats used for fishing near the international border in the Arabian Sea and detained 20 people aboard them
 naishanal fish forum gujarat ke sachiv manish lodhari ne kaha sagar main antarrashtriya seemaa ke paas machhlee pakadaney ke liye paanch naukaaen thi tabhi piemesa ke log aae or unamem se chaar naavon or un par savaar 20 logon ko hiraasat main le liya
 He said that the people aboard the fifth boat which returned to Porbandar, have informed them about the incident
 roki gai sabhi naukaaen porbandar kii thim
 With this, the number of boats belonging to Gujarat captured by Pakistan has increased to 417
 piemesa ne pichley maheene main gujarat kii 20 naukaaon ko rokkar 105 machuaaron ko giraftaar kiya tha
 After the Protem Speaker will administer the oath to all the mlas, the Fadnavis government has suffered a major setback from the Supreme Court under the surveillance of the cameras
 supreme court ne maharashtra main kal yani 27 november ko shaam 5 baje tak floor test karne kaa aadesh diya he
 The first Protem Speaker will administer the oath to all the mlas
 uske baad floor test hoga
 There will be no secret ballot in the floor test and it will be telecast live
 is ahm sunwaayee ke dauraan supreme court menshivsenaki taraf se anil desai, gajajan kartikar, congress ke mukul vaasanic, kasee venugopal or prithviraj chouhan maujuud rahe
 Apart from this, many lawyers including Kapil Sibal, Abhishek Manu Singhvi were also in the court
 supreme court ne apane faisle main kaha he ki sanvaidhanik mudde uthaane, loktantric mulyon ko dhyaan rakhane or samvidhan ko kaayam rakhane kii jarurat he
 The court gave the verdict on the basis of Harish Rawat, SR Bommai case
 somvaar ko bhi hui thi sunwaayeeisase pehle somvaar ko supreme court nerajyapalbi
 s
 koshyari kii ore se maharashtra main bijepi-ajit pavaar ko sarkaar banane ke liye die gaye aamantran maamle par apana aadesh mangalvaar subah 10
 Was secured for 30 hrs
 is tarah bijepi-ajit pavaar ko kam se kam ek din kii raahat mil gai
 Solicitor Tushar Mehta was presented on behalf of the government in the court
 unhone court se kaha ki vebijepico ensipi vidhayakon kii ore se diya gaya samarthan kaa patr lekar aae hai, jiske aadhaar par rajyapal ne faisla kiya
 JNU Students Union President Kanhaiya Kumar, who was released on bail on Thursday evening from Tihar Jail, addressed the media at the JNU Campus on Friday
 deshadroh ke maamle main aaropee kanhaiya ne kaha ki samvidhan or adaalat par unka puraa bharosa he
 He said that no student studying in JNU can be a traitor
 kaali gata chhategi or nyaay hoga
 i want to assure the taxpayers of this country that a JNU student can never be anti-national: Kanhaiya Kumarpic
 twitter
 com / y3yan0q8gr — ANI (@ani_news) March 4, 2016 Kanhaiya reiterated what he said in his address on Thursday night, stating that a planned conspiracy has been carried out against JNU
 lekin unka yaa unke saathiyon kaa kisi se koi matbhed nahin he, haa manabhed jarur he
 What Kanhaiya said - Omar, the case of treason did not go on non-acceptance
 is kanoon kaa galat istemaal nahin hona chahie
 - i will continue the fight for justice for Rohit Vemula
 - afjal ko kanoon ne sajaa di he
 But that is not my ideal
 - ham victory nahin unity march kar rahe hai
 - The constitution of the country is not a doctored video
 - main pradhanmantri nahin, desh kaa ek naagarik hum
 - Nobody has a patent on patriotism
 - desh kii nyaayik prakriya main meraa puraa vishwaas he
 - If a man tells that he lives in a country, then how can he be involved in any proceedings of the Khilafat of that country? - The instructions given by the court are my way of living
 ye to meraa sapana he jo court ne kaha he
 - For me Afzal is not Guru, Rohit Vemula is the icon
 - is campus ke chaatro ne mujhe apana pratinidhi chunaa he
 - i want to become a teacher in the future, so it is not wrong to ask questions and find answers
 - main yah spasht karnaa chahta hum ki main raajnneetijna nahin hum
 i am just a student
 - ham abhivyakti kii aazaadee ke daayre ko samajhate hai
 We also understand the meaning of freedom
 - 9 farvari ko jo kuch hua ham uski ghor ninda karte hai
 The court should decide whether it is treason or not
 - samvidhanik daayre ke baahar jo cheez he, uskaa kabhi jeenyu chaatr sangh ne na samarthan kiya he or na kabhi karegaa
 - There is no discrimination, so i am not talking about 'mann Ki Baat'
 - nile akaash main jo laal suraj niklaa he, usko kaale badal chupa nahin paaenge
 It will be a rain of happiness
 - haq kii ladaai ladanaa hamaara adhikaar he
 - We are not terrorists, thwart the conspiracy
 - jeenyu desh kii vaastavik aawaaj he
 - Students from 145 countries study in JNU
 - hamaara sarkaar se matbhed he, manabhed nahin he
 The common problems of western countries are despair, isolation, anorexia and negative emotion taking Indians under their control
 doctoron ke mutabik sardiyon kii udaasi (winter bluej) ke naam se pahachaani jane vaali yah samasya uttar bharat main adhik dekhne ko milti he
 Broshti Barkatki, a psychologist at Pushpavati Singhania Research Center, said, “in this season people complain of feelings like isolation, irritability, weakness and isolation
 jivan main aane vaali choti-choti samasyaon ko bhi bahut bada samajhane lagate hai or kai baar khud se hi uskaa ilaaj bhi karne lagate hai
 'he said that 1 in India
 5 se 2 karod log sardiyon kii udaasi se prabhavit hote hai
 In winter, this number is increasing due to less exit from home and not getting sunlight
 sar ganga ram aspataal ke varisht salaahkaar rajeev mehta ne kaha ki sardiyon kii udaasi yaa mausam prabhavit avsaad (esaidi) dhoop kii avadhi kam hone se dimag main jaev-rasinic asantulan ke kaaran paidaa hota he
 He said that due to lack of sunlight in this season, the level of strotanine decreases and people start feeling sad
 mehta ne kaha, 'kadaake kii thand ke kaaran shaareerik gatividhi kaa abhaav or ghar se baahar nahin nikalne ke kaaran bhi log ekaakipan or udaasi mahasoos karne lagate hai
 'many people also complain of body aches, constipation and headaches
 mehta ne kaha, 'sardi ke mausam main log yah sochakar ghar se baahar nahin nikalate hai ki kahin zukam na ho jaae, lekin unhen yah bhi sochna chahie ki is mausam main dhoop or vitamin di kii jarurat hoti he, kyonki sardiyon main ghar main khud ko band rakhane se vitamin di kaa str sharir main ghat jaataa he
 Psychologist Ashish Mittal of Columbia Asia Hospital in Gurgaon said, "depression can be avoided by getting out of the house, consuming sunshine in the morning and skipping alcohol and smoking altogether
" 'mittal ne kaha ki 2020 tak hriday rog ke baad avsaad duusari sabase aam beemaari ho jaaegi
 He said that better eating, consultation with doctors, walking out of the house and consuming sunlight is the cure for this problem
 pakistan ne daawa kiya ki somvaar ko usne newclear kshamta vaali missile babar-3 kii kaamyaab testing kii
 But questions have started coming up on Pakistan's testing video on social media
 photoshop exparts kaa maananaa he ki pakistan kii ore se jo image-video jari kii gai he wo farji he
 a fake video of the launching was released by Islamabad
 kyon phek lag rahaa he video?india today kii khabar ke mutabik, pathankot ke satellite imageri analist raaj ne technical saboot pesh kar sabit kerani kii koshish kii he kipakistanki ore se jari missile kaa video farji he
 Graphics have been used in this
 ise lekar @rajfortyseven twitor handle se raaj ne kai twit bhi kiye hai
 Raj says that disturbances are coming to light in Jio location of Babur 3, SLCM
 Maj Gen Asif Ghafoor pakistan ke major general asif gafoor kii ore se twit kiye gaye video main missile 8 second main 15 kimi move kar rahi he wo bhi 6750kmph kii raftaar se
 According to information given by Pakistan's inter-services Public Relations, Babur 3 has a range of 450 km
 # Pakistan # SLCM # babur3fake video clip uses CGI
 Geo-location coming up shortly
 https: / / t
 co / 26ysruqdrc — RAJ (@rajfortyseven) January 9, 2017 [if gte mso 9]> <xml> <o: officedocumentsettings> <o: allowpng / > < / o:officedocumentsettings> < / xml> <! [endif] [ if gte mso 9]> <xml> <w: worddocument> <w: View> Normal < / w: View> <w: Zoom> 0 < / w: Zoom> <w: trackmoves / > <w: trackformatting / > <w: punctuationkerning / > <w: validateagainstschemas / > <w: saveifxmlinvalid> false < / w: saveifxmlinvalid> <w: ignoremixedcontent> false < / w: ignoremixedcontent> <w: alwaysshowplaceholdertext> false <w: Always / wtholder : donotpromoteqf / > <w: lidthemeother> EN-IN < / w: lidthemeother> <w: lidthemeasian> X-NONE < / w: lidthemeasian> <w: lidthemecomplexscript> HI < / w: lidthemecomplexscript> <w: Compatibility><w: breakwrappedtables / > <w: snaptogridincell / > <w: wraptextwithpunct / > <w: useasianbreakrules / > <w: dontgrowautofit / > <w: splitpgbreakandparamark / > <w: enableopentypekernont / > <: Ments / > <w: : overridetablestylehps / > < / w: Compatibility> <m: mathpr> <m: mathfont m: val = "cambria Math" / > <m: brkbin m: val = "before" / > <m: brkbinsub m: val = "& # 45; -" / > <m: smallfrac m: val = "off" / > <m: dispdef / > <m: lmargin m: val = "0" / > <m: rmargin m: val = " 0 " / > <m: defjc m: val =" centergroup " / > <m: wrapindent m: val =" 1440 " / > <m: intlim m: val =" subsup " / > <m: narylim m: val = "undovr" / > < / m: mathpr> < / w:worddocument> < / xml> <! [endif] [if gte mso 9]> <xml> <w: latentstyles deflockedstate = "false" defunhidewhenused = "true" defsemihidden = "true" defqformat = "false" defpriority = "99" latentstylecount = "267"> <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "0" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" qformat = "true" Name = "normal" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" "priority =" 9 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "qformat =" true "name =" heading 1 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 9 "qformat =" true "name = "heading 2" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "9"qformat = "true" Name = "heading 3" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "9" qformat = "true" Name = "heading 4" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "9" qformat = "true" Name = "heading 5" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "9" qformat = "true" Name = "heading 6" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "9" qformat = "true" Name = "heading 7" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "9" qformat = "true" Name = "heading 8" / > <w : lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "9" qformat = "true" Name = "heading 9" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false"priority = "39" Name = "toc 1" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "39" Name = "toc 2" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "39" Name = "toc 3" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "39" Name = "toc 4" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "39" Name = "toc 5" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "39" Name = "toc 6" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "39" Name = "toc 7" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "39" Name = "toc 8" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "39" Name = "toc 9" / > <w:lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "35" qformat = "true" Name = "caption" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "10" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" qformat = " true "name =" Title " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 1 "name =" Default Paragraph Font " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 11 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "qformat =" true "name =" Subtitle " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 22 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "qformat =" true "name =" Strong " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 20 "semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" qformat = "true" Name = "emphasis" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "59" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "table Grid " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Placeholder Text " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 1 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false " qformat = "true" Name = "no Spacing" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "60" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "light Shading" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "61" semihidden = "false"unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "light List" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "62" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "light Grid" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "63" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "medium Shading 1" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "64" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = " false "name =" Medium Shading 2 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 65 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium List 1 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "66" semihidden = "false"unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "medium List 2" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "67" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "medium Grid 1" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "68" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "medium Grid 2" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "69" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "medium Grid 3" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "70" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "dark List" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "71" semihidden = "false"unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "colorful Shading" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "72" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "colorful List" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "73" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "colorful Grid" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "60" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" "name =" Light Shading Accent 1 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 61 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Light List Accent 1 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "62" semihidden = "false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Light Grid Accent 1 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 63 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium Shading 1 Accent 1 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "64" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "medium Shading 2 Accent 1" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "65 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium List 1 Accent 1 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Revision " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 34 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused ="false "qformat =" true "name =" List Paragraph " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 29 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "qformat =" true "name =" Quote " / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "30" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" qformat = "true" Name = "intense Quote" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = " 66 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium List 2 Accent 1 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 67 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium Grid 1 Accent 1 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority = "68" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "medium Grid 2 Accent 1" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "69" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "medium Grid 3 Accent 1" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "70" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "dark List Accent 1" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "71" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "colorful Shading Accent 1" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "72" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "colorful List Accent 1" / > <w:lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "73" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "colorful Grid Accent 1" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "60" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "light Shading Accent 2" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "61" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "light List Accent 2" / > < w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "62" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "light Grid Accent 2" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "63" semihidden = " false "unhidewhenused =" false "name ="medium Shading 1 Accent 2 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 64 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium Shading 2 Accent 2 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 65 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium List 1 Accent 2 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 66 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium List 2 Accent 2 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 67 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium Grid 1 Accent 2 " / > <w : lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "68" semihidden = "false"unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "medium Grid 2 Accent 2" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "69" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "medium Grid 3 Accent 2" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "70" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "dark List Accent 2" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "71" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "colorful Shading Accent 2" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "72" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "colorful List Accent 2 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 73 "semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "colorful Grid Accent 2" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "60" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "light Shading Accent 3 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 61 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Light List Accent 3 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 62 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Light Grid Accent 3 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 63 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium Shading 1 Accent 3 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked ="false "priority =" 64 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium Shading 2 Accent 3 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 65 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium List 1 Accent 3 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 66 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium List 2 Accent 3 " / > <w : lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "67" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "medium Grid 1 Accent 3" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "68" semihidden = " false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium Grid 2 Accent 3 " / ><w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "69" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "medium Grid 3 Accent 3" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "70" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "dark List Accent 3" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "71" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "colorful Shading Accent 3 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 72 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Colorful List Accent 3 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 73 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name ="colorful Grid Accent 3 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 60 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Light Shading Accent 4 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false " Priority = "61" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "light List Accent 4" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "62" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "light Grid Accent 4" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "63" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "medium Shading 1 Accent 4" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "64" semihidden = "false"unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "medium Shading 2 Accent 4" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "65" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "medium List 1 Accent 4" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "66" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "medium List 2 Accent 4" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "67" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "medium Grid 1 Accent 4" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "68" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "medium Grid 2 Accent 4 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority ="69 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium Grid 3 Accent 4 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 70 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Dark List Accent 4 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 71 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Colorful Shading Accent 4 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false " Priority = "72" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "colorful List Accent 4" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "73" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "colorful Grid Accent 4" / > <w:lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "60" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "light Shading Accent 5" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "61" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "light List Accent 5" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "62" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "light Grid Accent 5" / > < w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "63" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "medium Shading 1 Accent 5" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "64" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "medium Shading 2 Accent 5 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 65 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium List 1 Accent 5 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 66 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium List 2 Accent 5 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 67 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium Grid 1 Accent 5 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 68 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium Grid 2 Accent 5 " / > <w : lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "69" semihidden = "false"unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "medium Grid 3 Accent 5" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "70" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "dark List Accent 5" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "71" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "colorful Shading Accent 5" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "72" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "colorful List Accent 5" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "73" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "colorful Grid Accent 5" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "60"semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "light Shading Accent 6" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "61" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "light List Accent 6 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 62 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Light Grid Accent 6 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 63 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium Shading 1 Accent 6 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 64 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium Shading 2 Accent 6 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked ="false "priority =" 65 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium List 1 Accent 6 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 66 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium List 2 Accent 6 " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 67 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium Grid 1 Accent 6 " / > <w : lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "68" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "medium Grid 2 Accent 6" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "69" semihidden = " false "unhidewhenused =" false "name =" Medium Grid 3 Accent 6 " / ><w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "70" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "dark List Accent 6" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "71" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "colorful Shading Accent 6" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "72" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "colorful List Accent 6" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "73" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" Name = "colorful Grid Accent 6" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "19" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" qformat = "true "name =" Subtle Emphasis " / > <w: lsdexception Locked =" false "priority =" 21 "semihidden =" false "unhidewhenused =" false "qformat =" true "name =" Intense Emphasis " / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "31" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" qformat = "true" Name = "subtle Reference" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "32" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" qformat = "true" Name = "intense Reference" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "33" semihidden = "false" unhidewhenused = "false" qformat = "true" Name = "book Title" / > <w:lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "37" Name = "bibliography" / > <w: lsdexception Locked = "false" Priority = "39" qformat = "true" Name = "TOC Heading" / > < / w: latentstyles > < / xml> <! [endif] [if gte mso 10]> <style> / * Style Definitions * / table
 msonormaltable {mso-style-name:"table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0cm 5
 4pt 0cm 5
 4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0cm; mso-para-margin-right:0cm; mso-para-margin-bottom:10
 0pt; mso-para-margin-left: 0cm; line-height: 115%; mso-pagination: widow-orphan; font-size: 11
 0pt; mso-bidi-font-size:10
 0pt; font-family: "calibri", "sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family: Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family: Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: Mangal; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-fareast-language: EN-US;} < / style> <! [endif] Pakistan's claim-babar-3 will escape from the enemy's radar
 Pakistan on Monday successfully tested Babur-3
 yah jameen se daagijane vaali krooj missile (jielsiem) babar-2kaa ek varjan he
 Babar-2 was successfully tested in December 2016
 radio pakistan ke mutabik babar-3 letest takanic paradhaarit missile he
 Propulsion of the missile can be controlled underwater
 pakistani sena kaa daawa he ki missile atyaadhunik gidence or nevigation takanic seles he
 Due to its ability to fly very close to the ground, the missile is not easily caught in the air defense and radar
 pandubbi se launch kiye jane ke chalate babar-3ke hamale ko roak paanaa behad mushkil he
 Often Bollywood stars are known for doing charity work
 inhen sitaron main ek naam sonakshi sinha kaa bhi he
 She joined the charity even before she started her career in Bollywood
 'kamedi nits bachaao'or'kamedi nits live'ke do ghante ke sho main vah chintu urf bharti singh ko apane inhen raaj ke bare main bataati najar aaengi
 After signing his first film Dabangg, he donated part of the money he received to the Being Human Foundation
 is parsonakshika kahana he, 'har ek mata-pita kii tarah mere parents bhi chaahate the ki main achche kaam par paisa kharch karun
 To fulfill his wish, i gave money to Being Humanfoundation
 ' The first ODI between Team India and Sri Lanka: Dhoni's flamboyant, young cricketers are ready to beat Sri Lanka in Hambantota, Team India's first ODI against Sri Lanka at 2:30 pm
 court main abu jindal kii peshiaj mumbai ke chif metropolitan magistrate ke saamne pesh hoga jindal
 Maharashtra ATS has got custody of 26 / 11 accused Abu Jindal
 30 din baad mumbai lekar pahunchi police
 Mamta Banerjee will do martyr Smriti Rally in Kolkata Today Mamata Banerjee will do Shaheed Smriti Rally, try to show the strength of TMC, the party's rally can be jammed in Kolkata
 pavitra maah ramajaan shurupavitra maah ramajaan kaa aaj pehla din, shraddhaluon ne rakhaa rojaa, lakhanu main moulana firangi mahali ne kiya maahe ramajaan ke chand kaa elaan, masjidon main badi raunak
 Former naval officer Jerome, who was convicted in the Neeraj Grover murder case, has been given a 10-year sentence
 is maamle main doshi qaraar kannada abhinetri maaria sucyraj ko mumbai kii sthaneey adaalat ne teen saal kii sajaa sunai he
 Maria has been convicted in the case related to the murder of Neeraj Grover, who works in TV, but has been released from the murder charge
 jerome ko bhartiya dand samhita kii dhara 304 (bhaag ek) or 201 ke tahat gaiyr iradatan hatya kaa doshi qaraar diya gaya
 Maria was found guilty of erasing only evidence
 adaalat ne donon ko grover kii hatya ke liye doshi nahin paaya
 Significantly, in May 2008, Jerome and Susayraj were arrested in the brutal murder of Grover
 grover tivi main bataur produsar kaam karte the
 The 'are you faster than the fifth pass' quiz show was produced by Grover, which was moderated by Shah Rukh Khan
 congress upaadhyaksh rahul gandhi ne apane amethi daure par buudhvaar ko kaha ki pradhanmantri narendra modi agar 'kisaan or rojgaar' jaise do bade muddon kaa samaadhaan nahin kar sakate to kah den, ham ye kaam chah maheene main karke dikhaa denge
 Please tell that after 7 months Rahul is on a three-day tour of his constituency Amethi
 jiske tahat hi unhone jagadishpur ke kathora gaanv main chaoupal lagaai
 Rahul said, "modi ji should stop wasting the country's time and start giving employment to the youth of the country
 " unhone kaha, "hindustan main do mudde hai
 
 
 Farmer's issue and employment
 modi ji inkaa samaadhaan nahin kar sakate to kah den ki vah nahin kar sakate hai or congress aa jaae, wo meraa kaam kar de
 We will show the same work in six months
 "jiesti par bolte hue rahulne kaha, "kendra sarkaar ko jiesti par dobaaraa sochna chahie
 Tax should be reduced and should be simple
 jiesti kaa matlab ek desh, ek tex he
 Not many taxes
 "rahul gandhi bijepi par amethi main food park or aisi hi anya yojanaon kii andekhi karne kaa aarope madhte hue kaha, "bahut dukh hua ki amethi ke logon ko bijepi ne chot pahunchaai he
 
 
 this is wrong
 inaki soch hi aisi he
 But we will fight for you
 "congress upaadhyakshane modi sarkaar kii 'mek in india' or 'start ap' jaisi yojanaon kaa ullekh karte hue kaha ki jab tak 'mek in india', 'mek in amethi' or 'mek in uttar pradesh' nahin karenge, tab tak ye desh aage nahin ja saktaa he
 He said that the youth of the country feel that they want to work for the country but are not getting a chance
 yuvaaon main gussa badhata ja rahaa he
 Farmers of the country are committing suicide
 sanjay raut ne ek twit main likhaa accidental shapathgrahanis par nawab malik ne twit kiya or likhaa-ye ishk nahin
 
 
 Maradona's spell did not work and Messi's flop show Badastur continued
 vishwa cap kaa sabase bahucharchit muqabla nihaayat kii ekatarfa sabit hua
 Germany entered the semi-finals after beating Argentina by 4 goals to be one of the strongest contenders for the title
 pichley vishwa cap ke golden boot miroslav close ke do gol ke dam par germany ne 4-0 se shandaar jeet darj kii
 Closse, who has scored 14 goals in three World Cups, has reinstated himself in the race for the Golden Boot, equaling Gerd Müller's German record
 close ke is vishwa cap main chaar gol ho chuke hai
 He is one goal behind Brazil's Ronaldo's record of 15 goals for most World Cup goals
 thomas mular ne tisare minute main header par gol karke germany ko badhat dilaai
 Klose celebrated the completion of his hundred international matches by scoring goals in the 68th and 89th minutes
 arne friederich ne 74wein minute main teesraa gol kiya tha
 Three-time champions Germany will now face either Spain or Paraguay in the semi-finals, while Uruguay will take on Holland
 mular ke gol kii madad se germany ne halftime tak 1-0 se badhat bana lee thi
 Cloce survived the first minute seeing the yellowcard
 unhone argentina ke captain jevier muskerano ko baadha pahunchaai thi
 However, Muller will not be able to play the semi-finals due to two yellow cards
 germany ne teen minute ke baad hi match par dabaav bana liya jab lucas podolski kii freekik par mular ne toornament main chauthaa gol kiya
 The ball went near the foot of goalkeeper Sergio Romero and went inside the net
 argentina ke rhite back nicholas otamendi ko 11wein minute main pilaa card mila jisane german centre back arne friederich ko baadha pahunchaai
 The South American connoisseur got a golden opportunity to score when Lionel Messi penetrated the German defense and gave a pass to Kalres Tevez but was saved by goalkeeper Manuel Neuer
 iske kuch pal baad hi germany kii badhat 2-0 kii ho jaati lekin mular ke paas par close kaa shaat crassbaar se takaraakar nikal gaya
 Just before halftime, Argentina's goal was ruled out due to an offside
 duusare half main germany ne maradona kii team ko ek bhi mauka nahin diya
 Klose doubled Germany's lead in the 68th minute with the help of Müller and Podolski
 chancelar angela mercel samet baari taadaad main german samarthak is gol se khushi se uchhalte or ek duusare ko badhai dete najar aaye
 Six minutes later, Friedrich scored another goal to temper Argentina's hopes of a comeback
 close ne 89wein minute main chauthaa gol karke germany kii shandaar jeet par muhar laga di
 Maradona, the hero of Argentina's win in the World Cup 1986 and current coach Maradona's dream of being a part of the title win, was shattered
 team main nayi jaan bharne vaale is karishmai coach ne haar ke baavjood dilari dikhaate hue maidan par aakar khilaadiyon ko apni mashhoor ‘jaadu kii jhappi’ jarur di
 Yoga guru Baba Ramdev is scheduled to hold a press conference in Delhi today, in which he will give clarification on the allegations against him
 iskar vibhaag ramdev or unke patanjali yogapith se jude kareeb 400 khaaton kii jaanch kar rahaa he
 Apart from this, notices have also been sent to them by ED ie Enforcement Directorate
 ramdev kaa salanaa kaarobaar 1200 se 1300 karod rupee kaa mana jaataa he, lekin vah apane kaarobaar ko cheritable trust kii shrenee main rakhkar sarkaar se kai tarah kii riyaayaten lete hai
 In view of this, a show cause notice has also been issued to them
 iske alaava unhen idi yani pravartan nideshaalay kii taraf se bhi notice bheje gaye hai
 Ramdev's annual turnover is believed to be Rs 1,200 to Rs 1,300 crore, but he takes a number of concessions from the government by placing his business in the category of charitable trust
 isi ke maddenjar unhen kaaran bataao notice bhi jari kiya gaya he
 Personal computer sales in the country rose 24 percent to 35 percent in the second quarter of april-june of the current year
 3 lakh ikai par pahunch gai
 Research firm IDC said that PC orders have increased due to large orders mainly from the state governments of Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu
 tippaniyan Kiran Kumar, Research Manager, IDC, said in a statement, "states' initiatives have increased business investment in the country's PC market in the second quarter
 uttar pradesh, rajasthan tathaa tamilnadu jaise rajyon main is samay vishesh pariyojnaayen chalaai ja rahi hai
 They accounted for one-third of the total PC market in the second quarter
 unhone bataaya ki timahi aadhaar par pisi bazaar 30
 Rose 2 percent
 kumaar ne kaha ki vishesh pariyojnaon ko chhod diya jaae, to desh main pisi kii maang kamjor rahi he, jo pisi vendoron ke liye chintaa kii baat he
 In addition, the rupee depreciation has reduced enterprise spending and investment decisions are stalled
 idisi ke anusandhan prabandhak kiran kumaar ne bayaan main kaha, rajyon kii pahal se duusari timahi main desh ke pisi bazaar main vyavsaayik nivesh badha he
 Special projects are currently being run in states like Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu
 duusari timahi main kul pisi bazaar main inkaa hissaa ek-tihaai kaa rahaa he
 He reported that PC market 30 on a quarterly basis
 2 pratishat badha
 Kumar said that the PC demand in the country has been weak if special projects are dropped, which is a matter of concern for PC vendors
 iske alaava rupee main giravat se interprise kharch gata he tathaa nivesh ke faisle ruke hue hai
 They accounted for one-third of the total PC market in the second quarter
 unhone bataaya ki timahi aadhaar par pisi bazaar 30
 Rose 2 percent
 kumaar ne kaha ki vishesh pariyojnaon ko chhod diya jaae, to desh main pisi kii maang kamjor rahi he, jo pisi vendoron ke liye chintaa kii baat he
 In addition, the rupee depreciation has reduced enterprise spending and investment decisions are stalled
 gauratlab he ki akhilesh ne ek din pehle kaha tha ki iviem ke bajaae bailat paper se chunaav karaae jaaen
 He had also said that in this regard he would also hold a meeting with the leaders of the opposition in the first week of January
 Xiaomi ne haal hi main Mi mens sports shoej, Mi sports bluetooth yearphone or Mi 2-in-1 USB cabel ko bharat main launch kiya tha
 On Thursday, Xiaomi announced that these three products will be made available for sale for the first time in the country from April 4 to 12
 ye teenon products- Mi mens sports shoej, Mi sports bluetooth yearphone or Mi 2-in-1 USB cabel shaomi kii aadhikarik website par exclusive taur par cell kiye jaaenge
 As a reminder, Mi Men's Sports Shoes 2 was launched in India on Xiaomi's crowdfunding platform last month
 jabaki Mi sports bluetooth yearphone or Mi 2-in-1 USB cabel ko isi maheene pesh kiya gaya he
 Mi Men's Sports Shoes 2 will be sold for Rs 2,999, while Mi Sports Bluetooth earphones will be sold for Rs 1499
 philhala company ne Mi 2-in-1 USB cabel kii keemat kii jaankaree nahin di he
 Xiaomi has said that Mi Men's Sports Shoes 2 is the perfect balance of performance and style
 ise uni-molding process ke jariye taiyaar kiya gaya he
 It is designed specifically for men who travel more
 ise 5-in-1 uni-molding technology se taiyaar kiya gaya he
 Under this, 5 different materials have been combined
 jo ise shock ebjorbent, durable or slip racistant banaate hai
 The company has informed that the fishbone structure of the shoes gives it support to avoid any sprain
 graahakon ke liye ye shu- blike, dark grey or blue color opshan main uplabdh hoga
 According to the company, it can be easily washed
 duusari taraf Mi sports bluetooth yearphone kii baat karen to ye single charge main 5 ghante tak chalegaa
 The company claims that it will get a strong base and impressive audio performance
 iske alaava Mi 2-in-1 USB cabel (30 se
 M
 ) USB tip-c or micro-usb output port donon ko hi saport karata he
 Plus 2 in it
 4A tak quick charge fast charging bhi diya gaya he
 One of the best batsmen in the history of cricket, Ricky Ponting has said that Sachin Tendulkar is the best batsman among the teams he played against
 ponting ne dakshin africa ke khilaaf somvaar ko aakhri test main mili haar ke baad apni aakhri press conference main kaha, ‘mujhe lagata he ki jitanon ke khilaaf maine khelaa, unamem sachin sarvshereshth hai
 i can say the same from the point of view of a captain
 hamaare yahaan or bharat main bhi vah hamaare khilaaf kaaphi kaamyaab rahaa he
 'tendulkar has always been respected by Australian cricketers
 sar don bradmen ne 1996 main kaha tha ki sachin kii ballebaaji style main unhen apni jhalak milti he
 Bradman had said, "I never saw myself playing now but i think this player (tendulkar) plays the same way i used to play
" ’austrailia ke khilaaf 35 test main tendulkar ne 57
 Has scored 3438 runs at an average of 30 which includes 11 centuries and 15 half-centuries
 vanade main unhone austrailia ke khilaaf 71 maichon main 44
 Has scored 3077 runs at an average of 59
 ponting ne westeindies ke mahaan ballebaaj bryan lara kii bhi tarif kii
 He said that before the matches, Lara used to sleep with him
 ponting ne kaha, ‘lara ke khilaaf maichon se pehle meri neend ud jaati thi kyonki mujhe pataa tha ki vah akele dam par match jita saktaa he
 i assess players based on their ability to win matches
 ’unhone kaha, ‘lara aisa kar saktaa he or sachin ne bharat ke liye jo kiya he, usase adhik lara ne aisa kar dikhaaya he
 Comparison of the two players is not possible and Jacques Kallis will also have to be kept in this group
 ’ unhone kaha, ‘uskaa wicket kaaphi ahm hota he
 His average in Test cricket is 57 and it is also important that he also bowls
 ’ponting ne kaha ki is daur main khelnaa adbhut rahaa jisamen itane behtareen ballebaaj hai
 He said, 'I am lucky to be playing in this era which has so many great batsmen
 meraa naam bhi yadi isamen shumaar hota he to yah bahut badi baat he
 When asked about the bowlers, Ponting said that Indian off-spinner Harbhajan Singh has always troubled him
 unhone kaha, ‘usne mujhe kai baar out kiya or bahut dard diya
 Among other bowlers, he named Wasim Akram of Pakistan and Kurtli Ambrose of the West Indies
 bollywood mahanayake amitabh bachchan mangalvaar ko apane ghar ke baahar media kii baari maujuudagi dekhakar chaunk gaye
 After disclosing the possibility of Amitabh's CT scan on twitter, the media was desperate to know his health
 andheri east sthit sevenhills aspataal main amitabh kaa siti scan hone kii sambhaavna thi
 He underwent surgery two months ago in the same hospital
 amitabh ne twitor par likhaa, "main subah chah baje apane mechap artist kii bhojpuri film kii dabing ke liye gaya tha or maine dekha ki media kii gaadiyaan va tivi camera meraa peechha kar rahe hai
 Why, so
 " He said, "when the security personnel asked the media persons the reasons for the chase, they told about my Twitter message written regarding the CT scan
 
 This shows how much power Twitter has
 " amitabh ne spasht kiya ki vah niyamit jaanch ke liye chikitsak ke paas gaye the
